# PYoCo

> **Venue:** ICCV2023
> **Source:** <https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.10474>

---

Preserve Your Own Correlation: A Noise Prior for Video Diffusion Models
Songwei Ge*
University of Maryland
Seungjun Nah
NVIDIA
Guilin Liu
NVIDIA
Tyler Poon
University of Chicago
Andrew Tao
NVIDIA
Bryan Catanzaro
NVIDIA
David Jacobs
University of Maryland
Jia-Bin Huang
University of Maryland
Ming-Yu Liu
NVIDIA
Yogesh Balaji
NVIDIA
A very happy fuzzy panda dressed as a chef
eating pizza in the New York street food
truck.
The supernova explosion of a white dwarf in
the universe, photo realistic.
A high-quality 3D render of hyperrealist, su-
per strong, multicolor stripped, and fluffy
bear with wings, highly detailed.
Figure 1: Given a text description, our approach can faithfully generate videos that are consistent with the input text while
being photorealistic and temporally consistent. Best viewed with Acrobat Reader. Click the images to play the video clips.

## Abstract

Despite tremendous progress in generating high-quality
images using diffusion models, synthesizing a sequence of
animated frames that are both photorealistic and tempo-
rally coherent is still in its infancy.
While off-the-shelf
billion-scale datasets for image generation are available,
collecting similar video data of the same scale is still chal-
lenging. Also, training a video diffusion model is compu-
tationally much more expensive than its image counterpart.
In this work, we explore finetuning a pretrained image dif-
fusion model with video data as a practical solution for
the video synthesis task. We find that naively extending
the image noise prior to video noise prior in video diffu-
sion leads to sub-optimal performance. Our carefully de-
signed video noise prior leads to substantially better perfor-
mance. Extensive experimental validation shows that our
*Work done during an internship at NVIDIA.
model, Preserve Your Own COrrelation (PYoCo), attains
SOTA zero-shot text-to-video results on the UCF-101 and
MSR-VTT benchmarks. It also achieves SOTA video gener-
ation quality on the small-scale UCF-101 benchmark with
a 10× smaller model using significantly less computation
than the prior art. The project page is available at https:
//research.nvidia.com/labs/dir/pyoco/.
1. Introduction
Large-scale diffusion-based text-to-image models [38, 42,
2] have demonstrated impressive capabilities in turning com-
plex text descriptions into photorealistic images. They can
generate images with novel concepts unseen during train-
ing. Sophisticated image editing and processing tasks can
easily be accomplished through guidance control and em-
bedding techniques. Due to the immense success in several
applications [30, 68, 5], these models are established as pow-
1
arXiv:2305.10474v3  [cs.CV]  26 Mar 2024

(a)
i.i.d. noise prior
Progressive noise prior
(b)
Figure 2: Visualizing the noise map correlations. (a) visualizes the t-SNE plot of the noise maps corresponding to input
frames randomly sampled from videos. These noise maps are obtained by running a diffusion ODE [49, 48] on the input
frames using a trained text-to-image model, but in the opposite direction of image synthesis (σ : 0 →σmax). The green dots
in the background denote the reference noise maps sampled from an i.i.d. Gaussian distribution. The red dots and yellow
dots are noise maps corresponding to input frames coming from different videos. We found they are spread out and share no
correlation. On the other hand, the noise maps corresponding to the frames coming from the same video (shown in blue dots)
are clustered together. (b) Using an i.i.d. noise model (orange dots) for finetuning text-to-image models for video synthesis is
not ideal since temporal correlations between frames are not modeled. To remedy this, we propose a progressive noise model
in which the correlation between different noise maps is injected along the temporal axis. Our progressive noise model (blue
dots) aptly models the correlations present in the video noise maps.
erful image synthesis tools for content generation. As image
synthesis is largely democratized with the success of these
text-to-image models, it is natural to ask whether we can
repeat the same success in video synthesis with large-scale
diffusion-based text-to-video models.
Multiple attempts have been made to build large-scale
video diffusion models. Ho et al. [17] proposed a UNet-
based architecture for the video synthesis task that is trained
using joint image-video denoising losses. Imagen video [14]
extends the cascaded text-to-image generation architecture
of Imagen [42] for video generation. In both works, the
authors directly train a video generation model from scratch.
While these approaches achieve great success and produce
high-quality videos, they are inherently expensive to train,
requiring hundreds of high-end GPUs or TPUs and several
weeks of training. After all, video generators not only need
to learn to form individual images but should also learn to
synthesize coherent temporal dynamics, which makes the
video generation task much more challenging. While the
formation of individual frames is a shared component in an
image and video synthesis, these works disregard the exis-
tence of powerful pretrained text-to-image diffusion models
and train their video generators from scratch.
We explore a different avenue for building large-scale
text-to-video diffusion models by starting with a pretrained
text-to-image diffusion model. Our motivation is that most
of the components learned for the image synthesis task can
effectively be reused for video generation, leading to knowl-
edge transfer and efficient training. A similar idea is adopted
by several recent works [46, 70, 4]. Without exception,
when finetuning, they naively extend the image diffusion
noise prior (i.i.d. noise) used in the text-to-image model
to a video diffusion noise prior by adding an extra dimen-
sion to the 2D noise map. We argue that this approach is
not ideal as it does not utilize the natural correlations in
videos that are already learned by the image models. This
is illustrated in Figure 2, where we visualize the t-SNE plot
of noise maps corresponding to different input frames as
obtained from a pretrained text-to-image diffusion model.
The noise maps corresponding to different frames coming
from the same video (blue dots in Figure 2a are clustered
together, exhibiting a high degree of correlation. The use
of i.i.d. noise prior does not model this correlation, which
would impede the finetuning process. Our careful analysis of
the video diffusion noise prior leads us to a noise prior that
is better tailored for finetuning an image synthesis model to
the video generation task. As illustrated in Figure 2b, our
proposed noise prior (shown in blue dots) aptly captures the
correlations in noise maps corresponding to video frames.
We then proceed to build a large-scale diffusion-based
text-to-video model. We leverage several design choices
from the prior works, including the use of temporal atten-
tion [17], joint image-video finetuning [17], a cascaded gen-
eration architecture [14], and an ensemble of expert denois-

ers [2]. Together with these techniques and the proposed
video noise prior, our model establishes a new state-of-the-
art for video generation outperforming competing methods
on several benchmark datasets. Figure 1 shows our model
can achieve high-quality zero-shot video synthesis capability
with SOTA photorealism and temporal consistency.
In short, our work makes the following key contributions.
1. We propose a video diffusion noise tailored for finetuning
text-to-image diffusion models for text-to-video.
2. We conduct extensive experimental validation and verify
the effectiveness of the proposed noise prior.
3. We build a large-scale text-to-video diffusion model by
finetuning a pretrained eDiff-I model with our noise prior
and achieve state-of-the-art results on several benchmarks.
2. Related Work
Diffusion-based text-to-image models: Diffusion mod-
els have significantly advanced the progress of text-based
photorealistic, compositional image generation [38, 42].
Given the nature of the iterative denoising process that re-
quires massive numbers of score function evaluations, earlier
diffusion models focused on generating low-resolution im-
ages, e.g., 64 × 64 [15, 48]. To generate high-resolution im-
ages, two common approaches have been used. The first ap-
proach applies cascaded super-resolution models in the RGB
space [32, 16, 42, 38], while the second approach leverages a
decoder to exploit latent space [40, 11]. Based on these mod-
els, advanced image and video editing have been achieved
through finetuning the model [41, 68, 5, 23, 61, 29] or con-
trolling the inference process [30, 13, 34, 10, 35, 7, 31, 3].
Here, we study the problem of using large-scale diffusion
models for text-to-video generation.
Video generation models:
Generating realistic and
novel videos have long been an attractive and essential
research direction [58, 39, 66]. Previously studies have
resorted to different types of generative models such as
GANs [58, 43, 54, 52, 45], Autoregressive models [51, 64,
25, 9, 18], and implicit neural representations [47, 67]. Re-
cently, driven by the tremendous success of applying the
diffusion model to image synthesis, multiple works have
proposed to explore diffusion models for conditional and
unconditional video synthesis [57, 12, 70, 61, 4, 22, 19, 57,
65, 33, 28, 1, 59]. For example, Singer et al. extend the
unCLIP framework [38] to text-to-video generation, which
allows training without video captions [46]. Ho et al. [17]
extend the Imagen framework [42] by repeatedly up-scaling
low-resolution small-fps videos in both spatial and temporal
directions with multiple models [14]. Our work also falls
into this line of work which uses a diffusion model. We
focus on augmenting an image diffusion model for video
and study the design choice of the diffusion noise priors for
such an image-to-video finetuning task.
Leverage knowledge from images for text-to-video gen-
eration: Like text-to-image models, text-to-video models
require massive amounts of data to learn caption-relatedness,
frame photorealism, and temporal dynamics. But in contrast
to the abundant image data resource, video data are more
limited in style, volume, and quality. To resolve such scarcity
issue of text-video data, previous works have resorted to dif-
ferent strategies to leverage knowledge from image data for
text-to-video generation, including joint training on the text-
image data from scratch [17, 14, 56, 60], first training a text-
to-image model and then finetuning partially [18, 4, 61, 29]
or entirely [46, 8] on the video dataset, and using CLIP
image features as the conditional information [46, 70]. In
this paper, we propose a new video diffusion noise prior
that is tailored for finetuning a pretrained diffusion-based
image generation model for the video generation task. We
reuse several design choices in the prior work by finetuning
jointly on text-image and text-video datasets. As a result,
we can build a text-to-video generation system that achieves
state-of-the-art zero-shot performances.
3. Preliminaries
Diffusion models generate data by iteratively denois-
ing samples drawn from a noise distribution. In the case
of text-to-video models, text embeddings obtained from a
pre-trained text encoder are used as additional inputs in
the denoising process. Formally, let D(x, e, σ) denote a
denoising network that operates on the noisy input video
x ∈Rb×ns×3×h×w where e is the text embedding, and σ is
the noise level. Here ns is the sequence length of the input
video, b is the batch size, and h × w is the spatial resolution.
The model D is trained to denoise the input x.
Training
We follow the EDM formulation of Karras et al.
[21] to optimize the denoiser D using the following objective
Epdata(xclean,e),p(ϵ),p(σ)

λ(σ)∥D(xnoise; e, σ) −xclean∥2
2

(1)
where xnoise = xclean + σϵ
Here, xnoise is the noisy sample obtained by corrupting the
clean video x with noise σϵ, where p(ϵ) = N(0, I) and σ
is a scalar for the noise level drawn from p(σ). The loss
weight, λ(σ), is a function of σ given by λ(σ) = (σ2 +
σ2
data)/(σ · σdata)2. Eq. (1) is a simple denoising objective in
which the denoiser D is trained to estimate the clean video
xclean from the noisy input xnoise. Following EDM, we use a
log-normal distribution for σ i.e., ln(p(σ)) = N(Pmean, P 2
std)
with Pmean = −1.2 and Pstd = 1.2.
To train the denoising model, EDM uses preconditioning
terms in its objective function to properly scale the inputs
and output of the denoiser model D. More specifically, the

denoising model D is written as
D(x; e,σ):=
σdata
σ∗
2
x + σ · σdata
σ∗
Fθ
 x
σ∗; e,ln(σ)
4

Here, Fθ is a neural network with parameters θ and σ∗=
p
σ2 + σ2
data. We use σdata = 0.5.
Sampling
Once the denoising model is trained, sampling
can be performed by solving the following ODE [21]
dx
dσ = −σ∇x log p(x|e, σ) = x −D(x; e, σ)
σ
(2)
for σ flowing backwards from σ = σmax to σ = 0. The
initial value for x is obtained by sampling from the prior dis-
tribution x ∼N(0, σ2
maxI). Over the recent years, several
samplers have been proposed for sampling from the trained
diffusion models [69, 48, 26, 27, 15]. In this paper, we use
DEIS [69] and its stochastic variant [21] for synthesizing
samples from our model.
4. Method
Training text-to-video models is much more challenging
than training text-to-image diffusion models due to practi-
cal difficulties in collecting billion-scale video datasets and
securing enough computational resources. Additionally, gen-
erating videos is much more challenging since individual
frames need to be both photorealistic and temporally co-
herent. Prior works leverage large-scale image datasets to
mitigate these difficulties by either joint training on the im-
age datasets [60, 17, 14] or finetuning a text-to-image model
on the video datasets [18, 46]. Here, we are interested in
finetuning text-to-image diffusion models jointly on image
and video datasets. We postulate that naively extending the
image noise prior to video diffusion is not ideal. We care-
fully explore the design space of noise priors and propose
one that is well suited for our video finetuning task, which
leads to significant performance gains.
Correlated noise model
An image diffusion model is
trained to denoise independent noise from a perturbed im-
age. The noise vector ϵ in the denoising objective (1) is
sampled from an i.i.d. Gaussian distribution ϵ ∼N(0, I).
However, after training the image diffusion model and ap-
plying it to reverse real frames from a video into the noise
space in a per-frame manner, we find that the noise maps
corresponding to different frames are highly correlated. This
is illustrated in Figure 2, where the t-SNE plot of noise maps
corresponding to different video frames are plotted. When
the input frames come from the same video (shown in blue
dots in Figure 2a, noise maps are clustered. The use of i.i.d.
sampling (shown in orange dots in Figure 2b does not cap-
ture these correlations. This is also depicted quantitatively
Table 1: Cosine similarity of the reversed noise. The noise
maps corresponding to the frames sampled from the same
videos have a higher similarity than those sampled from
different videos.
Cosine Similarity
(a) Same video noise
0.206±0.156
(b) Different video noise
0.001±0.009
in Table 1 where we compute the average pairwise cosine
similarity between noise corresponding to (a) same video
and (b) different video. (a) is much higher than (b). As a
result, the video diffusion model trained with i.i.d. noise is
coerced to forget such correlation among the noise between
different frames, making it difficult to preserve knowledge
from the image diffusion model. Motivated by this obser-
vation, we propose to modify the noise process to preserve
the correlation between different frames. To this end, we
investigate two noising strategies - mixed and progressive
noising.
Mixed noise model: Let ϵ1, ϵ2, . . . ϵns denote the noise
corresponding to individual video frames i.e., ϵi corresponds
to the ith element of the noise tensor ϵ. In the mixed noise
model, we generate two noise vectors ϵshared and ϵind. ϵshared
is a common noise vector shared among all video frames,
while ϵind is the individual noise per frame. The linear com-
bination of both these vectors is used as the final noise.
ϵshared ∼N

0,
α2
1 + α2 I

, ϵi
ind ∼N

0,
1
1 + α2 I

(3)
ϵi = ϵshared + ϵi
ind
Progressive noise model:
In the progressive noise
model, the noise for each frame is generated in an autore-
gressive fashion in which the noise at frame i is generated
by perturbing the noise at frame i −1. Let ϵi
ind denote the
independent noise generated for frame i. Then, progressive
noising can be formulated as
ϵ0 ∼N(0,I)
ϵi
ind ∼N(0,
1
1 + α2 I)
(4)
ϵi =
α
√
1 + α2 ϵi−1 + ϵi
ind
In both these models, α controls how much noise is shared
among different video frames. The higher the value of α, the
more correlation exists among the noise maps corresponding
to different frames. As α →∞, all frames would have the
same noise which results in generating a frozen video. On
the other hand, α = 0 corresponds to i.i.d. noise.
As shown in Figure 2b, the use of progressive noise sam-
pling (blue dots) better models the correlations between
different noise maps by obtaining similar clustering patterns
to the noise maps of real video frames embedded by a pre-
trained text-to-image model in Figure 2a (blue dots).

Base model
Temporal
Interpolation
Spatial
Super
Resolution
T5 encoder
CLIP text encoder
16 x 64 x 64
76 x 256 x 256
76 x 1024 x 1024
Spatial
Super
Resolution
76 x 64 x 64
Figure 3: Model architecture. Our pipeline consists of a cascade of four networks — a base model and three upsampling
models. All four models take inputs as the text embeddings obtained from the T5 encoder and the CLIP text encoder. The base
model produces 16 video frames of spatial resolution 64 × 64 with a frameskip of 5. The first upsampling model performs a
temporal interpolation, resulting in videos of size 76 × 64 × 64 while the subsequent two super-resolution models perform
spatial super-resolution to produce videos of sizes 76 × 256 × 256 and 76 × 1024 × 1024.
Model architecture
As visualized in Figure 3, our model
consists of a cascade of four networks — a base network
and three upsampling stacks. The base network generates an
output video of dimension 16 × 64 × 64 with a frameskip
of 5. It generates the frames {1, 6, 11, . . . 76}. The first
upsampling network performs a temporal interpolation to
produce a video of size 76 × 64 × 64. The second and the
third super-resolution network performs spatial upsampling
to produce the outputs of sizes 76 × 256 × 256 and 76 ×
1024 × 1024. We utilize eDiff-I [2], a state-of-the-art text-
to-image diffusion model, to initialize our base and spatial
super-resolution models. Similar to prior works [17, 46], we
adapt the image-based U-Net model for the video synthesis
task by making the following changes: (1) Transforming 2D
convolutions to 3D by adding a dimension 1 to temporal axis
and (2) Adding temporal attention layers. Please refer to the
supplementary material for more details.
Similar to Ho et al. [17], we jointly finetune the model
on video and image datasets by concatenating videos and
images in the temporal axis and applying our temporal mod-
ules only on the video part. Similarly to eDiff-I, our model
uses both T5 text embeddings [37] and CLIP text embed-
dings [36]. We drop each of the embeddings independently
at random during training, as in eDiff-I.
5. Experiments
In this section, we evaluate our proposed strategy of train-
ing diffusion models for video synthesis on two sets of ex-
periments. We first comprehensively analyze our proposed
noise model on the small-scale UCF-101 dataset. We then
scale up our experiments to the challenging large-scale text-
to-video synthesis task.
5.1. Experimental Setups
We conduct ablation experiments in a small-scale uncon-
ditional video generation setting and pick the best configura-
tion for our large-scale text-to-video generation run.
Datasets
We train our model on the UCF-101 dataset [50]
for the small-scale experiments, where we follow the pro-
tocol defined in Ho et al. [17] to generate videos of size
16 × 64 × 64. UCF-101 dataset contains 13, 320 videos.
We randomly sample frames from these videos to train our
image synthesis model. For our large-scale experiments, we
use a combination of public and proprietary datasets for text-
to-image and text-to-video finetuning. Most of the videos
are of 2K resolution with 16:9 aspect ratio. All data was
filtered using a preset CLIP and aesthetic scores* to ensure
high quality. Our final image dataset contains around 1.2
billion text-image pairs and 22.5 million text-video pairs.
Training details
In the unconditional generation experi-
ment on the UCF-101 dataset, to do an ablation study on the
model size, we design 3 models where each model has 69M,
112M, and 253M parameters, respectively. As a comparison,
the baseline Video Diffusion Model (VDM) [17] contains
1.2B parameters. In the large-scale text-to-video experiment,
our base and temporal interpolation models contain 1.08B
parameters. Our super-resolution model adapted from the
efficient U-Net [42] architecture with temporal convolution
layers [14, 46] contains 313M parameters. Please refer to
the supplementary material for more training details.
*https://github.com/christophschuhmann/
improved-aesthetic-predictor

A cute corgi wearing a red robe
holding a sign that says ”Merry
Christmas”. There is a Christ-
mas tree in the background.
An epic tornado attacking above
a glowing city at night, the tor-
nado is made of smoke, highly
detailed.
Small boat sailing in the ocean,
giant Cthulhu monster coming
out a dense mist in the back-
ground, giant waves attacking.
A golden retriever puppy holding
a green sign that says ”NVIDIA
ROCKS”. Background is a class-
room.
A cute funny robot dancing, cen-
tered, award winning watercolor
pen illustration.
A cartoon white wolf is giv-
ing puppy-dog eyes, detailed fur,
very cute kid’s film character.
A lightning striking atop of eif-
fel tower, dark clouds in the sky,
slow motion.
An anime girl looks at the beau-
tiful nature through the window
of a moving train, well rendered.
A skull burning while being held
up by a skeletal hand.
A huge dinosaur skeleton walk-
ing in a golden wheat field on a
bright sunny day.
A cute rabbit is eating grass,
wildlife photography.
Tomato sauce pouring over fries.
Figure 4: Sample generations. Please check our project website to view the videos.

## Evaluation

For the small-scale experiments on UCF-101
dataset, we follow the protocol defined in the prior ap-
proaches [52, 47, 17] and report the Inception Score (IS) [44]
calculated by a trained C3D model [53] and Fr´echet Video
Distance (FVD) [55] by a trained I3D model [6]. For the
large-scale text-to-video experiments, we perform the zero-
shot evaluation of the video generation quality on the UCF-
101 and MSR-VTT datasets following Make-A-Video [46].
We carefully discuss the evaluation process below.
UCF-101 experiment
We use IS and FVD for evalua-
tion in our small-scale experiments. UCF-101 is a categor-
ical video dataset designed for action recognition. When
sampling from the text-to-video model, we devise a set of
prompts for each class name to be used as the conditional
input. This is necessary as some class names (such as jump
rope) are not descriptive. We list all the prompts we use in
the supplementary material. We sample 20 videos for each
prompt to compute the IS metric. For FVD, we follow the

Table 2: Zero-shot text to video generation on UCF-101. Our

## Approach

the prior baselines both in inception score and FVD metrics.

## Method

IS (↑) FVD (↓)
CogVideo [18] (Chinese)
23.55
751.34
CogVideo [18] (English)
25.27
701.59
Make-A-Video [46]
33.00
367.23
MagicVideo [70]
-
655.00
Video LDM [4]
33.45
550.61
VideoFactory [59]
-
410.00
47.76
355.19
Table 3: Text conditional zero-shot generation on MSRVTT.
Our approach with the base config achieves the best results,
and using an ensemble further improves the FIDs.
Method
CLIP-FID (↓) FID (↓)
NUWA [60] (Chinese)
47.68
-
CogVideo [18] (Chinese)
24.78
-
CogVideo [18] (English)
23.59
-
Make-A-Video [46]
13.17
-
MagicVideo [70]
-
36.50
Latent-Shift [1]
15.23
-
PYoCo (Config-A)
10.21
25.39
PYoCo (Config-B)
9.95
24.28
PYoCo (Config-C)
9.91
24.54
PYoCo (Config-D)
9.73
22.14
prior work [25, 52] and sample 2, 048 videos for evaluation.
MSR-VTT experiment
MSR-VTT [63] test set contains
2, 990 videos as well as 59, 794 captions. All the videos
have the same resolution of 320 × 240. We generate a
76 × 256 × 256 video for each 59, 794 caption and save
the videos in an mp4 format with a high bit rate. To com-
pare with Make-A-Video, we compute FID using a ViT-B/32
model [24]. We also report a more common FID metric com-
puted by an Inception-V3 model. We also examine the idea
of ensemble denoiser [2] by finetuning the level-1 experts
of each model. We denote Config-A as the configuration
of using only baseline models and Config-B to Config-D as
incrementally changing super-resolution model, temporal
interpolation model, and base model with the corresponding
ensemble models.
5.2. Main Results
Large-scale
text-to-video
synthesis
We
quantita-
tively compare our method against Make-A-Video [46],
NUWA [60], CogVideo [18], and several concurrent
works [4, 70, 4, 59, 1]. Table 2 shows that our method
Table 4: Unconditional UCF-101 generation results. Our

## Approach

FVD, while having considerably smaller parameter count
compared to other diffusion-based approaches such as VDM
(1B parameters).

## Method

IS (↑)
FVD (↓)
TGAN [43]
15.83±.18
-
LDVD-GAN [20]
22.91±.19
-
VideoGPT [64]
24.69±.30
-
MoCoGAN-HD [52]
32.36
838
DIGAN [67]
29.71±.53
655±22
CCVS [25]
24.47±.13
386±15
StyleGAN-V [47]
23.94±.73
-
VDM [17]
57.00±.62
-
TATS [9]
57.63±.73
430 ±18
PYoCo (112M)
57.93±.24
332 ±13
PYoCo (253M)
60.01±.51
310 ±13
outperforms all the baselines on the UCF-101 dataset and
improves the zero-shot Inception Score from 33.45 to 47.76.
In Table 3, we show that our baseline model achieves a
new state-of-the-art CLIP-FID score [24] of 10.21, while
using ensemble models further improves both CLIP-FID
and FID scores. In Figure 4, we qualitatively visualize the
synthesis capability of our approach. Our model achieves
high-quality zero-shot video synthesis capability with good
photorealism and temporal coherency. We also provide a
qualitative comparison with Make-A-Video [46] and Imagen
Video [14] in Figure 5. We observe that our model is able to
produce videos with better details than both approaches, as
shown in the animal videos. We also produce better-stylized
videos than Imagen Video.
Small-scale unconditional video synthesis
We report IS
and FVD scores on UCF-101 dataset in Table 4 and com-
pare our model with multiple unconditional video generation
baselines. Note that using class labels as conditional infor-
mation could lead to sizeable improvement in IS and FVD
scores [9], which we do not consider as the comparison.
Our method attains state-of-the-art unconditional video gen-
eration quality. Compared with previous diffusion-based
unconditional generation model [17], our model is ∼10×
smaller and has ∼14× less training time (75 GPU-days vs.
925 GPU-days).
5.3. Ablation Study
We quantitatively compare several training strategies for
video diffusion models. Then, we perform ablation on the
correlation ratio in the Equations 3 and 4, a key hyper-
parameter in our approach.

Make-A-Video [46]
Imagen Video [14]
A confused grizzly bear in calculus class.
A sheep to the right of a wineglass.
Sailboat sailing on a sunny day in a mountainlake.
A cat eating food out of a bowl, in style of Van Gogh.
Figure 5: Qualitative comparison with baseline approaches. The two panels on the left show the comparison of our approach
with Make-A-Video [46], while those on the right show the comparison with Imagen Video [14]. PYoCo achieves better
photorealism compared to the two approaches.
Table 5: Quantitative results of different training strategies
on UCF-101 dataset.
IS(↑)
FVD (↓)
FID (↓)
Image Diffusion (ID)
-
-
30.05
Training from scratch
28.25
903.37
124.75
Finetuning from ID
41.25
566.67
56.43
+ Mixed Noise
52.71
337.40
31.57
+ Progressive Noise
53.52
339.67
31.88
Training strategies
We compare training from scratch, a
simple finetuning baseline, finetuning with mixed noising,
and progressive noising using IS, FVD, and averaged frame
FID metrics on the UCF-101 dataset in Table 5. We first
find that finetuning from an image diffusion model is much
more effective than training from scratch. For finetuning
from the image model, the correlated noise model produces
better video generation quality than the independent noise
model. In addition, we notice that the correlated noise better
preserves the image quality learned by the pretrained image
model and produces a lower frame FID. This is particularly
desired in large-scale text-to-video training to fulfill the goal
of inheriting the knowledge from the image model missing in
the video datasets. Specifically, most videos contain realistic
scenes captured by cameras and have infrequent media types
like paintings, illustrations, sketches, etc. Moreover, the
video data is much smaller in volume, and the scenes are
less diverse than image datasets. As shown in Figure 4, our
model can preserve properties learned from image datasets
that are not presented in our video dataset, such as the artistic
styles, and generate faithful motion on them.
Correlation ratio
The hyperparameter α in the Equations
3 and 4 controls the correlation between the noise of differ-
ent frames. A larger α injects more correlation into the noise.
The correlation disappears when α →0, and the mixed and
progressive noise models reproduce the vanilla noise model.
To find optimal α, we train our UCF-small model (69M pa-
rameters) using α ∈{0, 0.1, 0.2, 0.5, 1, 1, 2, 5, 10, ∞} and
report FVD in Figure 7. For each α value, we repeat the

## Experiments

indicates finetuning with the independent frame noise, and
α = ∞indicates using identical noise maps for all the
frames, which produces frozen videos during the inference
time. Finetuning an image diffusion model almost consis-
tently outperforms the training-from-scratch baseline with
different αs. Using α = 1 for mixed noising and α = 2 for
progressive noising produces similar best results. We also
show qualitiative results for models trained with α = 0, 1, 10
in Figure 6. When α is too small, we notice a degradation in
visual quality in the generated video frames and a reduced
video diversity. For example, we notice many repeated sam-
ples and black borders in almost every video generated with

α = 0
α = 1
α = 10
Figure 6: Visual ablation on α. Small α = 0 reduces video quality and diversity and large α = 10 yields motion artifacts.
0
0.1
0.2
0.5
1.0
2.0
5.0
10.0
∞
500
1000
FVD
α
Mixed
Progressive
Scratch
Figure 7: Quantitative ablation on hyperparameter α.
Finetuning with temporally correlated prior improves over
training from scratch. Using a too-large or too-small α leads
to inferior results. α = 1, α = 2 each works the best for
mixed and progressive noising, respectively.
α = 0. On the other hand, when α is too large, the model
has difficulty generating proper motions.
Model size
We pick the best α for the mixed and progres-
sive noise models and compare them with the model trained
from scratch on models with different numbers of parame-
ters, 69M, 112M, and 253M. Figure 8 shows that our mixed
and progressive models outperform the baseline consistently
by a large margin in terms of FVD. Overall, mixed and pro-
gressive noising provide similar performance. In our large
large-scale experiments, we choose progressive noising with
α = 2 due to its autoregressive nature.
6. Conclusion
We proposed a new efficient way of training text-to-video
generation models. By observing that the noise maps gener-
ating the frames of a video are clustered together, we study
50
100
150
200
250
400
600
800
FVD
Number of Parameters (M)
Mixed (α = 1)
Progressive (α = 2)
Scratch
Figure 8: Ablation on model size. Larger models con-
sistently improve the performance of both finetuning and
training from scratch. Finetuning from image model consis-
tently outperforms training from scratch.
mixed and progressive noise priors well-suited for sequential
video frame generation. We apply our progressive noise prior
to finetuning a state-of-the-art diffusion-based text-to-image
model to achieve a state-of-the-art large-scale text-to-video
model. The high quality of the generated videos and the
state-of-the-art Inception and FID scores demonstrate the
strength of our approach.
Acknowledgment. We would like to thank Amanda Moran,
John Dickinson, Sivakumar Arayandi Thottakara, David
Page, Ranjitha Prasanna, Venkata Karri, and others in NGC
and PBSS team for the computing infrastructure support. We
also give thanks to Qinsheng Zhang, Zekun Hao, Tsung-Yi
Lin, Ajay Jain, and Chen-Hsuan Lin for useful discussions
and feedback. Thanks also go to Yin Xi and Thomas Hayes
for clarifying the evaluation protocol of Make-A-Video and
to Ming Ding for the details of CogVideo. We thank the
ICCV PCs, ACs, and reviewers for their service and valuable
feedback. This work is partly supported by NSF grants No.
IIS-1910132 and IIS-2213335.

A. Experimental Setups
In this section, we provide additional details of our ex-
periments in terms of implementation, dataset, evaluation,
model, and training.
A.1. Implementation details
Similar to prior works [17, 46], we adapt the image-based
U-Net model for the video synthesis task by making the fol-
lowing changes: (1) We transform the 2D convolution layers
to 3D by adding a dimension of 1 to the temporal axis. For
instance, we convert a 3 × 3 convolution layer to 1 × 3 × 3
layer. (2) We replace the attention layers in the base and
temporal interpolation models with a cascade of spatial and
temporal attention layers. The spatial attention layers are
reused from eDiff-I [2], while the temporal attention layers
are initialized randomly with a projection layer at the end
using zero-initialization. We apply temporal attention to the
activation maps obtained by moving the spatial dimension
of the feature tensor to the batch axis. (3) For the tempo-
ral interpolation model, we concatenate the input noise in
the channel axis with 16 frames by infilling 4 real frames
with zero frames. (4) We add a 3 × 1 × 1 convolution layer
at the end of each efficient block of the super-resolution
model [42]. (5) For all the models, we apply spatial atten-
tion to the reshaped activation maps obtained by moving
the temporal dimension of the feature tensor to the batch
axis. We apply the same operation to the feature maps input
the GroupNorm [62] to mimic better the statistics the image
model learned. We use cross-attention layers (between text
and videos) only in the spatial attention block, as adding
it to the temporal attention resulted in significant memory
overhead. (6) We utilize eDiff-I [2] to initialize our base
and spatial super-resolution models. We use a similar model
architecture as the base model for our temporal interpolation
model, as they share the same function of hallucinating un-
seen frames. After finetuning the base model for some time,
we use its checkpoint to initialize the temporal interpolation
model. (7) Similar to Ho et al. [17], we jointly finetune
the model on video and image datasets by concatenating
videos and images in the temporal axis and applying our
temporal modules only on the video part. (8) Similarly to
eDiff-I, our model uses both T5 [37] text embeddings and
CLIP text embeddings [36]. During training, we drop each
of the embeddings independently at random, as in eDiff-I.
A.2. Dataset and evaluation details
Caption templates for categorical video datasets
Given
the name of the category [class] such as kayaking and yoga,
we consider the following templates to create video captions:
• a man is [class].
• a woman is [class].
• a kid is [class].
• a group of people are [class].
• doing [class].
• a man is doing [class].
• a woman is doing [class].
• a kid is doing [class].
• a group of people are doing [class].
• [class].
Prompts used for UCF-101 evaluation
In our initial ex-
plorations, we find that the original class labels in the UCF-
101 dataset often cannot describe the video content correctly.
For example, the class jump rope is more likely describing an
object rather than a complete video. Therefore, we write one
sentence for each class as the caption for video generation.
We list these prompts for evaluating text-to-video generation
models on the standard UCF-101 benchmark below †.
applying eye makeup, applying lipstick, archery, baby
crawling, gymnast performing on a balance beam, band
marching, baseball pitcher throwing baseball, a basketball
player shooting basketball, dunking basketball in a basket-
ball match, bench press, biking, billiards, blow dry hair,
blowing candles, body weight squats, a person bowling on
bowling alley, boxing punching bag, boxing speed bag, swim-
mer doing breast stroke, brushing teeth, clean and jerk, cliff
diving, bowling in cricket gameplay, batting in cricket game-
play, cutting in kitchen, diver diving into a swimming pool
from a springboard, drumming, two fencers have fencing
match indoors, field hockey match, gymnast performing on
the floor, group of people playing frisbee on the playground,
swimmer doing front crawl, golfer swings and strikes the
ball, haircuting, a person hammering a nail, an athlete per-
forming the hammer throw, an athlete doing handstand push
up, an athlete doing handstand walking, massagist doing
head massage to man, an athlete doing high jump, group of
people racing horse, person riding a horse, a woman doing
hula hoop, man and woman dancing on the ice, athlete prac-
ticing javelin throw, a person juggling with balls, a young
person doing jumping jacks, a person skipping with jump
rope, a person kayaking in rapid water, knitting, an athlete
doing long jump, a person doing lunges with barbell, mili-
tary parade, mixing in the kitchen, mopping floor, a person
practicing nunchuck, gymnast performing on parallel bars,
a person tossing pizza dough, a musician playing the cello in
a room, a musician playing the daf, a musician playing the
†A copy-paste friendly version is available in the Google Spread-
sheet
at
https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/
1teEGth-Iy1be4Tx7xfXUKBA3aGZ9Hhr2gueTpuuwv94/
edit?usp=sharing

indian dhol, a musician playing the flute, a musician playing
the guitar, a musician playing the piano, a musician playing
the sitar, a musician playing the tabla, a musician playing
the violin, an athlete jumps over the bar, gymnast performing
pommel horse exercise, a person doing pull ups on bar, box-
ing match, push ups, group of people rafting on fast moving
river, rock climbing indoor, rope climbing, several people
rowing a boat on the river, couple salsa dancing, young
man shaving beard with razor, an athlete practicing shot
put throw, a teenager skateboarding, skier skiing down, jet
ski on the water, sky diving, soccer player juggling football,
soccer player doing penalty kick in a soccer match, gymnast
performing on still rings, sumo wrestling, surfing, kids swing
at the park, a person playing table tennis, a person doing
TaiChi, a person playing tennis, an athlete practicing discus
throw, trampoline jumping, typing on computer keyboard,
a gymnast performing on the uneven bars, people playing
volleyball, walking with dog, a person standing and doing
pushups on the wall, a person writing on the blackboard, a
kid playing Yo-Yo
A.3. Training details
UCF-101 experiments.
For image pretraining phase on
the UCF-101 frames, we use an ADAM optimizer with a
base learning rate of 2e −4. For video finetuning phase, we
adopt an ADAM optimizer with a base learning rate of 1e−4.
We use a linear warm up of 5, 000 steps for both phases.
For sampling, we use stochastic DEIS sampler [?, 21] with
3kutta, order 6 and 25 steps.
Large-scale experiments.
The hyper-parameters we use
for the large-scale text-to-video experiments are provided in
Table F.
A.4. Architecture details
The architectures used for the small-scale UCF experi-
ments are provided in Tables G, H and I. For the large-scale
experiment, the architectures used for base model, temporal
interpolation model, and the two spatial super-resolution
stacks are provided in tables J, K, L and M respectively.
Table F: Hyperparameters
Hyperparameters for large-scale experiments
Optimizer
AdamW
Learning rate
0.0001
Weight decay
0.01
Betas
(0.9, 0.999)
EMA
0.9999
CLIP text embedding
0.2
dropout rate
T5 text embedding
0.25
dropout rate
Gradient checkpointing
Enabled
# iterations for base model
150K
# iterations for super-res model
220K
Sampler for base model
Stochastic DEIS [69, 21],
3kutta, Order 3, 60 steps
Sampler for super-res models
DEIS, 3kutta
Order 3, 20 steps
Table G: Small (69M parameters) UCF-101 model architec-
ture.
Small (69M parameters) UCF-101 model
Channel multiplier
[1, 2, 2, 3]
Dropout
0.1
Number of channels
128
Number of residual blocks
2
Spatial self attention resolutions
[32, 16, 8]
Spatial cross attention resolutions
[32, 16, 8]
Temporal attention resolution
[32, 16, 8]
Number of channels in attention heads
64
Use scale shift norm
True
Table H: Medium (112M parameters) UCF-101 model archi-
tecture.
Medium (112M parameters) UCF-101 model
Channel multiplier
[1, 2, 3, 4]
Dropout
0.1
Number of channels
128
Number of residual blocks
2
Spatial self attention resolutions
[32, 16, 8]
Spatial cross attention resolutions
[32, 16, 8]
Temporal attention resolution
[32, 16, 8]
Number of channels in attention heads
64
Use scale shift norm
True

Table I: Large (253M parameters) UCF-101 model architec-
ture.
Large (253M parameters) UCF-101 model
Channel multiplier
[1, 2, 3, 4]
Dropout
0.1
Number of channels
192
Number of residual blocks
2
Spatial self attention resolutions
[32, 16, 8]
Spatial cross attention resolutions
[32, 16, 8]
Temporal attention resolution
[32, 16, 8]
Number of channels in attention heads
64
Use scale shift norm
True
Table J: Architecture for the base model in text-to-video
experiments.
Text-to-video base model (1.08B parameters)
Channel multiplier
[1, 2, 4, 4]
Dropout
0
Number of channels
256
Number of residual blocks
3
Spatial self attention resolutions
[32, 16, 8]
Spatial cross attention resolutions
[32, 16, 8]
Temporal attention resolution
[32, 16, 8]
Number of channels in attention heads
64
Use scale shift norm
True
Table K: Architecture for the temporal interpolation model
in text-to-video experiments.
Temporal interpolation model (1.08B parameters)
Channel multiplier
[1, 2, 4, 4]
Dropout
0
Number of channels
256
Number of residual blocks
3
Spatial self attention resolutions
[32, 16, 8]
Spatial cross attention resolutions
[32, 16, 8]
Temporal attention resolution
[32, 16, 8]
Number of channels in attention heads
64
Use scale shift norm
True
Table L: Architecture for the spatial super-resolution model
in text-to-video experiments.
Spatial super-resolution 256 (300M parameters)
Channel multiplier
[1, 2, 4, 8]
Block multiplier
[1, 2, 4, 4]
Dropout
0
Number of channels
128
Number of residual blocks
2
Spatial self attention resolutions
[32]
Spatial cross attention resolutions
[32]
Number of channels in attention heads
64
Use scale shift norm
True
Table M: Architecture for the spatial super-resolution model
in text-to-video experiments.
Spatial super-resolution 1024 (170M parameters)
Patch size
256 × 256
Channel multiplier
[1, 2, 4, 4]
Block multiplier
[1, 2, 4, 4]
Number of channels
128
Number of residual blocks
2
Spatial cross attention resolutions
[32]
Use scale shift norm
True

References
[1] Jie An, Songyang Zhang, Harry Yang, Sonal Gupta, Jia-Bin
Huang, Jiebo Luo, and Xi Yin. Latent-shift: Latent diffu-
sion with temporal shift for efficient text-to-video generation.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2304.08477, 2023. 3, 7
[2] Yogesh Balaji, Seungjun Nah, Xun Huang, Arash Vahdat,
Jiaming Song, Qinsheng Zhang, Karsten Kreis, Miika Aittala,
Timo Aila, Samuli Laine, Bryan Catanzaro, et al. eDiff-I:
Text-to-image diffusion models with an ensemble of expert
denoisers. arXiv preprint arXiv:2211.01324, 2022. 1, 3, 5, 7,
10
[3] Omer Bar-Tal, Dolev Ofri-Amar, Rafail Fridman, Yoni Kas-
ten, and Tali Dekel. Text2live: Text-driven layered image and
video editing. In ECCV, pages 707–723. Springer, 2022. 3
[4] Andreas Blattmann, Robin Rombach, Huan Ling, Tim Dock-
horn, Seung Wook Kim, Sanja Fidler, and Karsten Kreis.
Align your latents: High-resolution video synthesis with la-
tent diffusion models. In CVPR, 2023. 2, 3, 7
[5] Tim Brooks, Aleksander Holynski, and Alexei A Efros. In-
structpix2pix: Learning to follow image editing instructions.
CVPR, 2023. 1, 3
[6] Joao Carreira and Andrew Zisserman. Quo vadis, action
recognition? a new model and the kinetics dataset. In CVPR,
pages 6299–6308, 2017. 6
[7] Duygu Ceylan,
Chun-Hao Huang,
and Niloy J. Mi-
tra.
Pix2video:
Video editing using image diffusion.
arXiv:2303.12688, 2023. 3
[8] Patrick Esser, Johnathan Chiu, Parmida Atighehchian,
Jonathan Granskog, and Anastasis Germanidis. Structure
and content-guided video synthesis with diffusion models.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2302.03011, 2023. 3
[9] Songwei Ge, Thomas Hayes, Harry Yang, Xi Yin, Guan
Pang, David Jacobs, Jia-Bin Huang, and Devi Parikh. Long
video generation with time-agnostic vqgan and time-sensitive
transformer. arXiv preprint arXiv:2204.03638, 2022. 3, 7
[10] Songwei Ge, Taesung Park, Jun-Yan Zhu, and Jia-Bin Huang.
Expressive text-to-image generation with rich text. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2304.06720, 2023. 3
[11] Shuyang Gu, Dong Chen, Jianmin Bao, Fang Wen, Bo Zhang,
Dongdong Chen, Lu Yuan, and Baining Guo. Vector quan-
tized diffusion model for text-to-image synthesis. In CVPR,
pages 10696–10706, 2022. 3
[12] William Harvey, Saeid Naderiparizi, Vaden Masrani, Chris-
tian Weilbach, and Frank Wood. Flexible diffusion modeling
of long videos. arXiv preprint arXiv:2205.11495, 2022. 3
[13] Amir Hertz, Ron Mokady, Jay Tenenbaum, Kfir Aberman,
Yael Pritch, and Daniel Cohen-Or. Prompt-to-prompt im-
age editing with cross attention control.
arXiv preprint
arXiv:2208.01626, 2022. 3
[14] Jonathan Ho, William Chan, Chitwan Saharia, Jay Whang,
Ruiqi Gao, Alexey Gritsenko, Diederik P Kingma, Ben Poole,
Mohammad Norouzi, David J Fleet, et al. Imagen video:
High definition video generation with diffusion models. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2210.02303, 2022. 2, 3, 4, 5, 7, 8
[15] Jonathan Ho, Ajay Jain, and Pieter Abbeel. Denoising diffu-
sion probabilistic models. NeurIPS, 33:6840–6851, 2020. 3,
4
[16] Jonathan Ho, Chitwan Saharia, William Chan, David J Fleet,
Mohammad Norouzi, and Tim Salimans. Cascaded diffusion
models for high fidelity image generation. JMLR, 23:47–1,
2022. 3
[17] Jonathan Ho, Tim Salimans, Alexey Gritsenko, William Chan,
Mohammad Norouzi, and David J Fleet. Video diffusion
models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2204.03458, 2022. 2, 3, 4, 5, 6,
7, 10
[18] Wenyi Hong, Ming Ding, Wendi Zheng, Xinghan Liu, and Jie
Tang. Cogvideo: Large-scale pretraining for text-to-video gen-
eration via transformers. arXiv preprint arXiv:2205.15868,
2022. 3, 4, 7
[19] Tobias H¨oppe, Arash Mehrjou, Stefan Bauer, Didrik Nielsen,
and Andrea Dittadi. Diffusion models for video prediction
and infilling. arXiv preprint arXiv:2206.07696, 2022. 3
[20] Emmanuel Kahembwe and Subramanian Ramamoorthy.
Lower dimensional kernels for video discriminators. Neural
Networks, 2020. 7
[21] Tero Karras, Miika Aittala, Timo Aila, and Samuli Laine.
Elucidating the design space of diffusion-based generative
models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2206.00364, 2022. 3, 4, 11
[22] Levon Khachatryan, Andranik Movsisyan, Vahram Tade-
vosyan,
Roberto Henschel,
Zhangyang Wang,
Shant
Navasardyan, and Humphrey Shi. Text2video-zero: Text-
to-image diffusion models are zero-shot video generators.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2303.13439, 2023. 3
[23] Nupur Kumari, Bingliang Zhang, Richard Zhang, Eli Shecht-
man, and Jun-Yan Zhu. Multi-concept customization of text-
to-image diffusion. arXiv preprint arXiv:2212.04488, 2022.
3
[24] Tuomas Kynk¨a¨anniemi, Tero Karras, Miika Aittala, Timo
Aila, and Jaakko Lehtinen. The role of imagenet classes in
fr´echet inception distance. In ICLR, 2023. 7
[25] Guillaume Le Moing, Jean Ponce, and Cordelia Schmid. Ccvs:
Context-aware controllable video synthesis. NeurIPS, 2021.
3, 7
[26] Luping Liu, Yi Ren, Zhijie Lin, and Zhou Zhao. Pseudo
numerical methods for diffusion models on manifolds. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2202.09778, 2022. 4
[27] Cheng Lu, Yuhao Zhou, Fan Bao, Jianfei Chen, Chongxuan
Li, and Jun Zhu. Dpm-solver++: Fast solver for guided
sampling of diffusion probabilistic models. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2211.01095, 2022. 4
[28] Zhengxiong Luo, Dayou Chen, Yingya Zhang, Yan Huang,
Liang Wang, Yujun Shen, Deli Zhao, Jingren Zhou, and Tie-
niu Tan. Videofusion: Decomposed diffusion models for
high-quality video generation. In CVPR, 2023. 3
[29] Yue Ma, Yingqing He, Xiaodong Cun, Xintao Wang, Ying
Shan, Xiu Li, and Qifeng Chen. Follow your pose: Pose-
guided text-to-video generation using pose-free videos. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2304.01186, 2023. 3
[30] Chenlin Meng, Yutong He, Yang Song, Jiaming Song, Jiajun
Wu, Jun-Yan Zhu, and Stefano Ermon. SDEdit: Guided image
synthesis and editing with stochastic differential equations.
In ICLR, 2022. 1, 3
[31] Eyal Molad, Eliahu Horwitz, Dani Valevski, Alex Rav Acha,
Yossi Matias, Yael Pritch, Yaniv Leviathan, and Yedid Hoshen.

Dreamix: Video diffusion models are general video editors.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2302.01329, 2023. 3
[32] Alex Nichol, Prafulla Dhariwal, Aditya Ramesh, Pranav
Shyam, Pamela Mishkin, Bob McGrew, Ilya Sutskever, and
Mark Chen. Glide: Towards photorealistic image generation
and editing with text-guided diffusion models. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2112.10741, 2021. 3
[33] Yaniv Nikankin, Niv Haim, and Michal Irani. Sinfusion:
Training diffusion models on a single image or video. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2211.11743, 2022. 3
[34] Gaurav Parmar, Krishna Kumar Singh, Richard Zhang, Yijun
Li, Jingwan Lu, and Jun-Yan Zhu. Zero-shot image-to-image
translation. arXiv preprint arXiv:2302.03027, 2023. 3
[35] Chenyang Qi, Xiaodong Cun, Yong Zhang, Chenyang Lei,
Xintao Wang, Ying Shan, and Qifeng Chen. Fatezero: Fus-
ing attentions for zero-shot text-based video editing. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2303.09535, 2023. 3
[36] Alec Radford, Jong Wook Kim, Chris Hallacy, Aditya
Ramesh, Gabriel Goh, Sandhini Agarwal, Girish Sastry,
Amanda Askell, Pamela Mishkin, Jack Clark, Gretchen
Krueger, and Ilya Sutskever. Learning transferable visual
models from natural language supervision. In ICML, 2021. 5,
10
[37] Colin Raffel, Noam Shazeer, Adam Roberts, Katherine Lee,
Sharan Narang, Michael Matena, Yanqi Zhou, Wei Li, and
Peter J. Liu. Exploring the limits of transfer learning with a
unified text-to-text transformer. JMLR, 21(140):1–67, 2020.
5, 10
[38] Aditya Ramesh, Prafulla Dhariwal, Alex Nichol, Casey Chu,
and Mark Chen. Hierarchical text-conditional image genera-
tion with clip latents. arXiv preprint arXiv:2204.06125, 2022.
1, 3
[39] MarcAurelio Ranzato, Arthur Szlam, Joan Bruna, Michael
Mathieu, Ronan Collobert, and Sumit Chopra. Video (lan-
guage) modeling: a baseline for generative models of natural
videos. arXiv preprint arXiv:1412.6604, 2014. 3
[40] Robin Rombach, Andreas Blattmann, Dominik Lorenz,
Patrick Esser, and Bj¨orn Ommer. High-resolution image
synthesis with latent diffusion models. In CVPR, pages 10684–
10695, 2022. 3
[41] Nataniel Ruiz, Yuanzhen Li, Varun Jampani, Yael Pritch,
Michael Rubinstein, and Kfir Aberman. Dreambooth: Fine
tuning text-to-image diffusion models for subject-driven gen-
eration. arXiv preprint arXiv:2208.12242, 2022. 3
[42] Chitwan Saharia, William Chan, Saurabh Saxena, Lala Li, Jay
Whang, Emily Denton, Seyed Kamyar Seyed Ghasemipour,
Burcu Karagol Ayan, S Sara Mahdavi, Rapha Gontijo Lopes,
et al. Photorealistic text-to-image diffusion models with deep
language understanding. arXiv preprint arXiv:2205.11487,
2022. 1, 2, 3, 5, 10
[43] Masaki Saito, Eiichi Matsumoto, and Shunta Saito. Temporal
generative adversarial nets with singular value clipping. In
ICCV, 2017. 3, 7
[44] Masaki Saito, Shunta Saito, Masanori Koyama, and So-
suke Kobayashi. Train sparsely, generate densely: Memory-
efficient unsupervised training of high-resolution temporal
gan. IJCV, 2020. 6
[45] Xiaoqian Shen, Xiang Li, and Mohamed Elhoseiny. Mostgan-
v: Video generation with temporal motion styles. In CVPR,
2023. 3
[46] Uriel Singer, Adam Polyak, Thomas Hayes, Xi Yin, Jie An,
Songyang Zhang, Qiyuan Hu, Harry Yang, Oron Ashual,
Oran Gafni, et al. Make-a-video: Text-to-video generation
without text-video data. arXiv preprint arXiv:2209.14792,
2022. 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 10
[47] Ivan Skorokhodov, Sergey Tulyakov, and Mohamed Elho-
seiny. Stylegan-v: A continuous video generator with the
price, image quality and perks of stylegan2. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2112.14683, 2021. 3, 6, 7
[48] Jiaming Song, Chenlin Meng, and Stefano Ermon. Denoising
diffusion implicit models. In ICLR, 2021. 2, 3, 4
[49] Yang Song, Jascha Sohl-Dickstein, Diederik P Kingma, Ab-
hishek Kumar, Stefano Ermon, and Ben Poole. Score-based
generative modeling through stochastic differential equations.
In ICLR, 2021. 2
[50] Khurram Soomro, Amir Roshan Zamir, and Mubarak Shah.
Ucf101: A dataset of 101 human actions classes from videos
in the wild. arXiv preprint arXiv:1212.0402, 2012. 5
[51] Nitish Srivastava, Elman Mansimov, and Ruslan Salakhudi-
nov. Unsupervised learning of video representations using
lstms. In ICML, 2015. 3
[52] Yu Tian, Jian Ren, Menglei Chai, Kyle Olszewski, Xi Peng,
Dimitris N. Metaxas, and Sergey Tulyakov. A good image
generator is what you need for high-resolution video synthesis.
In ICLR, 2021. 3, 6, 7
[53] Du Tran, Lubomir Bourdev, Rob Fergus, Lorenzo Torresani,
and Manohar Paluri. Learning spatiotemporal features with
3d convolutional networks. In ICCV, 2015. 6
[54] Sergey Tulyakov, Ming-Yu Liu, Xiaodong Yang, and Jan
Kautz. Mocogan: Decomposing motion and content for video
generation. In CVPR, June 2018. 3
[55] Thomas Unterthiner, Sjoerd van Steenkiste, Karol Kurach,
Raphael Marinier, Marcin Michalski, and Sylvain Gelly. To-
wards accurate generative models of video: A new metric &
challenges. ICLR, 2019. 6
[56] Ruben Villegas, Mohammad Babaeizadeh, Pieter-Jan Kinder-
mans, Hernan Moraldo, Han Zhang, Mohammad Taghi Saffar,
Santiago Castro, Julius Kunze, and Dumitru Erhan. Phenaki:
Variable length video generation from open domain textual
description. arXiv preprint arXiv:2210.02399, 2022. 3
[57] Vikram Voleti, Alexia Jolicoeur-Martineau, and Christopher
Pal. Masked conditional video diffusion for prediction, gen-
eration, and interpolation. arXiv preprint arXiv:2205.09853,
2022. 3
[58] Carl Vondrick, Hamed Pirsiavash, and Antonio Torralba. Gen-
erating videos with scene dynamics. NIPS, 2016. 3
[59] Wenjing Wang, Huan Yang, Zixi Tuo, Huiguo He, Junchen
Zhu, Jianlong Fu, and Jiaying Liu. Videofactory: Swap atten-
tion in spatiotemporal diffusions for text-to-video generation.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2305.10874, 2023. 3, 7
[60] Chenfei Wu, Jian Liang, Lei Ji, Fan Yang, Yuejian Fang,
Daxin Jiang, and Nan Duan. N¨uwa: Visual synthesis pre-
training for neural visual world creation. In ECCV, pages
720–736. Springer, 2022. 3, 4, 7

[61] Jay Zhangjie Wu, Yixiao Ge, Xintao Wang, Weixian Lei,
Yuchao Gu, Wynne Hsu, Ying Shan, Xiaohu Qie, and
Mike Zheng Shou. Tune-a-video: One-shot tuning of image
diffusion models for text-to-video generation. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2212.11565, 2022. 3
[62] Yuxin Wu and Kaiming He. Group normalization. In ECCV,
pages 3–19, 2018. 10
[63] Jun Xu, Tao Mei, Ting Yao, and Yong Rui. Msr-vtt: A large
video description dataset for bridging video and language. In
CVPR, 2016. 7
[64] Wilson Yan, Yunzhi Zhang, Pieter Abbeel, and Aravind Srini-
vas. Videogpt: Video generation using vq-vae and transform-
ers. arXiv preprint arXiv:2104.10157, 2021. 3, 7
[65] Ruihan Yang, Prakhar Srivastava, and Stephan Mandt. Dif-
fusion probabilistic modeling for video generation. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2203.09481, 2022. 3
[66] Lijun Yu, Yong Cheng, Kihyuk Sohn, Jos´e Lezama, Han
Zhang, Huiwen Chang, Alexander G Hauptmann, Ming-
Hsuan Yang, Yuan Hao, Irfan Essa, et al. Magvit: Masked gen-
erative video transformer. arXiv preprint arXiv:2212.05199,
2022. 3
[67] Sihyun Yu, Jihoon Tack, Sangwoo Mo, Hyunsu Kim, Junho
Kim, Jung-Woo Ha, and Jinwoo Shin. Generating videos with
dynamics-aware implicit generative adversarial networks. In
ICLR, 2021. 3, 7
[68] Lvmin Zhang and Maneesh Agrawala. Adding conditional
control to text-to-image diffusion models. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2302.05543, 2023. 1, 3
[69] Qinsheng Zhang and Yongxin Chen. Fast sampling of diffu-
sion models with exponential integrator. In ICLR, 2023. 4,
11
[70] Daquan Zhou, Weimin Wang, Hanshu Yan, Weiwei Lv,
Yizhe Zhu, and Jiashi Feng. Magicvideo: Efficient video
generation with latent diffusion models.
arXiv preprint
arXiv:2211.11018, 2022. 2, 3, 7
