# Rich Human Feedback

> **Venue:** CVPR2024
> **Award:** Best Paper
> **Source:** <https://openaccess.thecvf.com/content/CVPR2024/html/Liang_Rich_Human_Feedback_for_Text-to-Image_Generation_CVPR_2024_paper.html>

---

Rich Human Feedback for Text-to-Image Generation
Youwei Liang*†1, Junfeng He*‡2, Gang Li*‡2, Peizhao Li†5, Arseniy Klimovskiy2, Nicholas Carolan2,
Jiao Sun†§3, Jordi Pont-Tuset2, Sarah Young2, Feng Yang2, Junjie Ke2, Krishnamurthy Dj Dvijotham2,
Katherine M. Collins†4, Yiwen Luo2, Yang Li2, Kai J Kohlhoff2, Deepak Ramachandran2, and Vidhya
Navalpakkam2
1University of California, San Diego
2Google Research
3University of Southern California
4University of Cambridge
5Brandeis University

## Abstract

Recent Text-to-Image (T2I) generation models such as
Stable Diffusion and Imagen have made significant progress
in generating high-resolution images based on text descrip-
tions. However, many generated images still suffer from
issues such as artifacts/implausibility, misalignment with
text descriptions, and low aesthetic quality. Inspired by the
success of Reinforcement Learning with Human Feedback
(RLHF) for large language models, prior works collected
human-provided scores as feedback on generated images
and trained a reward model to improve the T2I generation.
In this paper, we enrich the feedback signal by (i) marking
image regions that are implausible or misaligned with the
text, and (ii) annotating which words in the text prompt are
misrepresented or missing on the image. We collect such
rich human feedback on 18K generated images (RichHF-
18K) and train a multimodal transformer to predict the rich
feedback automatically. We show that the predicted rich
human feedback can be leveraged to improve image gener-
ation, for example, by selecting high-quality training data
to finetune and improve the generative models, or by cre-
ating masks with predicted heatmaps to inpaint the prob-
lematic regions. Notably, the improvements generalize to
models (Muse) beyond those used to generate the images
on which human feedback data were collected (Stable Dif-
fusion variants). The RichHF-18K data set will be released
*Co-first authors, equal technical contribution
†The work was done during an internship at Google.
Email: youwei@ucsd.edu
‡Corresponding authors, equal leading contribution.
Email: {junfenghe,leebird}@google.com
§Currently affiliated with Google Gemini Team
in our GitHub repository:
https://github.com/google-
research/google-research/tree/master/richhf 18k.
1. Introduction
Text-to-image (T2I) generation models [12, 17, 41, 42, 56,
58, 59] are rapidly becoming a key to content creation in
various domains, including entertainment, art, design, and
advertising, and are also being generalized to image edit-
ing [4, 27, 44, 50], video generation [23, 35, 53], among
many other applications.
Despite significant recent ad-
vances, the outputs still usually suffer from issues such
as artifacts/implausibility, misalignment with text descrip-
tions, and low aesthetic quality [30, 52, 54]. For example,
in the Pick-a-Pic dataset [30], which mainly consists of im-
ages generated by Stable Diffusion model variants , many
images (e.g. Fig. 1) contain distorted human/animal bodies
(e.g. human hands with more than five fingers), distorted
objects and implausibility issues such as a floating lamp.
Our human evaluation experiments find that only ∼10% of
the generated images in the dataset are free of artifacts and
implausibility. Similarly, text-image misalignment issues
are common too, e.g., the prompt is “a man jumping into a
river” but the generated image shows the man standing.
Existing automatic evaluation metrics for generated im-
ages, however, including the well-known IS [43] and
FID [20], are computed over distributions of images and
may not reflect nuances in individual images. Recent re-
search has collected human preferences/ratings to evaluate
the quality of generated images and trained evaluation mod-
els to predict those ratings [30, 52, 54], notably ImageRe-
This CVPR paper is the Open Access version, provided by the Computer Vision Foundation.
Except for this watermark, it is identical to the accepted version;
the final published version of the proceedings is available on IEEE Xplore.
19401

ward [54] or Pick-a-Pic [30]. While more focused, these
metrics still summarize the quality of one image into a sin-
gle numeric score. In terms of prompt-image alignment,
there are also seminal single-score metrics such as CLIP-
Score [19] and more recent question generation and answer-
ing pipelines [8, 10, 24, 57]. While more calibrated and ex-
plainable, these are expensive and complex models that still
do not localize the regions of misalignment in the image.
In this paper, we propose a dataset and a model of fine-
grained multi-faceted evaluations that are interpretable and
attributable (e.g., to regions with artifacts/implausibility or
image-text misalignments), which provide a much richer
understanding of the image quality than single scalar scores.
As a first contribution, we collect a dataset of Rich Hu-
man Feedback on 18K images (RichHF-18K), which con-
tains (i) point annotations on the image that highlight re-
gions of implausibility/artifacts, and text-image misalign-
ment; (ii) labeled words on the prompts specifying the
missing or misrepresented concepts in the generated image;
and (iii) four types of fine-grained scores for image plau-
sibility, text-image alignment, aesthetics, and overall rat-
ing. Equipped with RichHF-18K, we design a multimodal
transformer model, which we coin as Rich Automatic Hu-
man Feedback (RAHF) to learn to predict these rich human
annotations on generated images and their associated text
prompt. Our model can therefore predict implausibility and
misalignment regions, misaligned keywords, as well as fine-
grained scores. This not only provides reliable ratings, but
also more detailed and explainable insights about the qual-
ity of the generated images. To the best of our knowledge,
this is the first rich feedback dataset and model for state-of-
the-art text-to-image generation models, providing an auto-
matic and explainable pipeline to evaluate T2I generation.
The main contributions of this paper are summarized below:
1. The first Rich Human Feedback dataset (RichHF-18K)
on generated images (consisting of fine-grained scores,
implausibility(artifact)/misalignment image regions, and
misalignment keywords), on 18K Pick-a-Pic images.
2. A multimodal Transformer model (RAHF) to predict
rich feedback on generated images, which we show to
be highly correlated with the human annotations on a
test set.
3. We further demonstrate the usefulness of the predicted
rich human feedback by RAHF to improve image gen-
eration: (i) by using the predicted heatmaps as masks to
inpaint problematic image regions and (ii) by using the
predicted scores to help finetune image generation mod-
els (like Muse [6]), e.g., via selecting/filtering finetuning
data, or as reward guidance. We show that in both cases
we obtain better images than with the original model.
4. The improvement on the Muse model, which differs
from the models that generated the images in our train-
ing set, shows the good generalization capacity of our
RAHF model.
2. Related works
Text-to-image generation
Text-to-image (T2I) genera-
tion models have evolved and iterated through several pop-
ular model architectures in the deep learning era. An early
work is the Generative Adversarial Network (GAN) [3, 16,
26], which trains a generator for image generation and a
discriminator to distinguish between real and generated im-
ages, in parallel (also see [32, 38, 47, 55, 60, 62] among
others). Another category of generation models develops
from variational auto-encoders (VAEs) [21, 29, 48], which
optimize evidence lower bound (ELBO) for the likelihood
of the image data.
Most recently, Diffusion Models (DMs) [22, 36, 41, 46]
have emerged as the state-of-the-art (SOTA) for Image Gen-
eration [13]. DMs are trained to generate images progres-
sively from random noise, with the ability to capture more
diversity than GANs and achieve good sample quality [13].
Latent Diffusion Models [41] are a further refinement that
performs the diffusion process in a compact latent space for
more efficiency.
Text-to-image evaluation and reward models
There has
been much recent work on evaluation of text-to-image mod-
els along many dimensions [9, 25, 30, 31, 37, 51, 52, 54].
Xu et al. [54] collect a human preference dataset by request-
ing users to rank multiple images and rate them according to
their quality. They trained a reward model ImageReward for
human preference learning, and proposed Reward Feedback
Learning (ReFL) for tuning diffusion models with the Im-
ageReward model. Kirstain et al. [30] built a web applica-
tion to collect human preferences by asking users to choose
the better image from a pair of generated images, resulting
in a dataset called Pick-a-Pic with more than 500K exam-
ples generated by T2I models such as Stable Diffusion 2.1,
Dreamlike Photoreal 2.05, and Stable Diffusion XL vari-
ants. They leveraged the human preference dataset to train
a CLIP-based [39] scoring function, called PickScore, to
predict human preferences. Huang et al. [25] proposed a
benchmark called T2I-CompBench for evaluating text-to-
image models, which consists of 6,000 text prompts de-
scribing attribute binding, object relationships, and complex
compositions.
They utilized multiple pretrained vision-
language models such as CLIP [39] and BLIP [34] to calcu-
late multiple evaluation metrics. Wu et al. [51, 52] collected
a large scale dataset of human choices on generated images
and utilized the dataset to train a classifier that outputs a Hu-
man Preference Score (HPS). They showed improvement in
image generation by tuning Stable Diffusion with the HPS.
Recently, Lee [31] proposed a holistic evaluation for T2I
models with multiple fine-grained metrics.
Despite these valuable contributions, most existing
works only use binary human ratings or preference rank-
19402

Misaligned
keywords:
A panda riding a
motorcycle
Plausibility:
5    4    3    2    1
Alignment:
5    4    3    2    1
Aesthetics:
5    4    3    2    1
Overall:
5    4    3    2    1
Figure 1. An illustration of our annotation UI. Annotators mark
points on the image to indicate artifact/implausibility regions (red
points) or misaligned regions (blue points) w.r.t the text prompt.
Then, they click on the words to mark the misaligned keywords
(underlined and shaded) and choose the scores for plausibility,
text-image alignment, aesthetics, and overall quality (underlined).
ing for construction of feedback/rewards, and lack the abil-
ity to provide detailed actionable feedback such as implau-
sible regions of the image, misaligned regions, or mis-
aligned keywords on the generated images.
One recent
paper related to our work is Zhang et al. [61], which col-
lected a dataset of artifact regions for image synthesis tasks,
trained a segmentation-based model to predict artifact re-
gions, and proposed a region inpainting method for those
regions. However, the focus of their work is artifact re-
gion only, while in this paper, we collected rich feedback
for T2I generation containing not only artifact regions, but
also misalignment regions, misaligned keywords, and four
fine-grained scores from multiple aspects. To the best of
our knowledge, this is the first work on heterogeneous rich
human feedback for text-to-image models.
3. Collecting rich human feedback
3.1. Data collection process
In this section, we discuss our procedure to collect the
RichHF-18K dataset, which includes two heatmaps (ar-
tifact/implausibility and misalignment), four fine-grained
scores (plausibility, alignment, aesthetics, and overall
score), and one text sequence (misaligned keywords).
For each generated image, the annotators are first asked
to examine the image and read the text prompt used to gen-
erate it. Then, they mark points on the image to indicate the
location of any implausibility/artifact or misalignment w.r.t
the text prompt. The annotators are told that each marked
point has an “effective radius” (1/20 of the image height),
which forms an imaginary disk centering at the marked
point. In this way, we can use a relatively small amount
of points to cover the image regions with flaws. Lastly, an-
notators label the misaligned keywords and the four types of
scores for plausibility, image-text alignment, aesthetic, and
overall quality, respectively, on a 5-point Likert scale. De-
tailed definitions of image implausibility/artifact and mis-
alignment can be found in the supplementary materials. We
designed a web UI, as shown in Fig. 1, to facilitate data col-
lection. More details about data collection process can be
found in the supplementary materials.
3.2. Human feedback consolidation
To improve the reliability of the collected human feedback
on generated images, each image-text pair is annotated by
three annotators. We therefore need to consolidate the mul-
tiple annotations for each sample. For the scores, we sim-
ply average the scores from the multiple annotators for an
image to obtain the final score. For the misaligned key-
word annotations, we perform majority voting to get the fi-
nal sequence of indicators of aligned/misaligned, using the
most frequent label for the keywords. For the point anno-
tations, we first convert them to heatmaps for each anno-
tation, where each point is converted to a disk region (as
discussed in the last subsection) on the heatmap, and then
we compute the average heatmap across annotators. The
regions with clear implausibility are likely to be annotated
by all annotators and have a high value on the final average
heatmap.
3.3. RichHF-18K: a dataset of rich human feedback
We select a subset of image-text pairs from the Pick-a-Pic
dataset for data annotation. Although our method is gen-
eral and applicable to any generated images, we choose the
majority of our dataset to be photo-realistic images, due to
its importance and wider applications. Moreover, we also
want to have balanced categories across the images. To en-
sure balance, we utilized the PaLI visual question answer-
ing (VQA) model [7] to extract some basic features from
the Pick-a-Pic data samples. Specifically, we asked the fol-
lowing questions for each image-text pair in Pick-a-Pic. 1)
Is the image photorealistic? 2) Which category best de-
scribes the image? Choose one in ‘human’, ‘animal’, ‘ob-
ject’, ‘indoor scene’, ‘outdoor scene’. PaLI’s answers to
these two questions are generally reliable under our manual
inspection. We used the answers to sample a diverse sub-
set from Pick-a-Pic, resulting in 17K image-text pairs. We
randomly split the 17K samples into two subsets, a training
set with 16K samples and a validation set with 1K samples.
The distribution of the attributes of the 16K training sam-
ples is shown in the supplementary materials. Additionally,
we collect rich human feedback on the unique prompts and
their corresponding images from the Pick-a-Pic test set as
our test set. In total, we collected rich human feedback on
the 18K image-text pairs from Pick-a-Pic. Our RichHF-
18K dataset consists of 16K training, 1K validation, and 1K
test samples.
19403

0.00
0.08
0.17
0.25
0.33
0.42
0.50
0.58
0.67
0.75
0.83
0.92
1.00
Plausibility
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
3000
Counts
0.00
0.08
0.17
0.25
0.33
0.42
0.50
0.58
0.67
0.75
0.83
0.92
1.00
Alignment
0.00
0.08
0.17
0.25
0.33
0.42
0.50
0.58
0.67
0.75
0.83
0.92
1.00
Aesthetics
0.00
0.08
0.17
0.25
0.33
0.42
0.50
0.58
0.67
0.75
0.83
0.92
1.00
Overall
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
3000
Figure 2. Histograms of the average scores of image-text pairs in the training set.
ViT
Text
embed
Image
tokens
Text
tokens
Plausibility, alignment, aesthetics, overall
Implausibility/misalignment
Misaligned keyword sequence
Self-attention
Feature
maps
Conv, deconv
layers
Heatmaps
Conv, linear
layers
Scores
Text
T5X
decoder
Image
Text
prompt
Tokens
Figure 3. Architecture of our rich feedback model. Our model consists of two streams of computation: one vision and one text stream.
We perform self-attention on the ViT-outputted image tokens and the Text-embed module-outputted text tokens to fuse the image and text
information. The vision tokens are reshaped into feature maps and mapped to heatmaps and scores. The vision and text tokens are sent to
a Transformer decoder to generate a text sequence.
0
2500
5000
7500
10000 12500 15000
Counts
Overall
Aesthetics
Alignment
Plausibility
max_diff
0.00
0.25
0.50
0.75
1.00
Figure 4. Counts of the samples with maximum differences of
the scores in the training set.
3.4. Data statistics of RichHF-18K
In this section, we summarize the statistics of the scores and
perform the annotator agreement analysis for the scores. We
standardize the scores s with the formula (s−smin)/(smax−
smin) (smax = 5 and smin = 1) so that the scores lie in the
range [0, 1].
The histogram plots of the scores are shown in Fig. 2.
The distribution of the scores is similar to a Gaussian dis-
tribution, while the plausibility and text-image alignment
scores have a slightly higher percentage of score 1.0. The
distribution of the collected scores ensures that we have
a reasonable number of negative and positive samples for
training a good reward model.
To analyze the rating agreement among annotators for
an image-text pair, we calculate the maximum difference
among the scores: maxdiff = max(scores) −min(scores)
where scores are the three score labels for an image-text
pair. We plot the histogram of maxdiff in Fig. 4. We can
see that around 25% of the samples have perfect annotator
agreement and around 85% of the samples have good anno-
tator agreement (maxdiff is less than or equal to 0.25 after
the standardization or 1 in the 5-point Likert scale).
4. Predicting rich human feedback
4.1. Models
4.1.1
Architecture
The architecture of our model is shown in Fig. 3. We adopt
a vision-language model based on ViT [14] and T5X [40]
models, inspired by the Spotlight model architecture [33],
but modifying both the model and pretraining datasets to
better suit our tasks. We use a self-attention module [49]
among the concatenated image tokens and text tokens, sim-
ilar to PaLI [7], as our tasks require bidirectional informa-
tion propagation. The text information is propagated to im-
age tokens for text misalignment score and heatmap pre-
diction, while the vision information is propagated to text
tokens for better vision-aware text encoding to decode the
text misalignment sequence. To pretrain the model on more
diverse images, we add the natural image captioning task on
the WebLI dataset [7] to the pretraining task mixture.
Specifically, the ViT takes the generated image as input
and outputs image tokens as high-level representations. The
text prompt tokens are embedded into dense vectors. The
image tokens and embedded text tokens are concatenated
and encoded by the Transformer self-attention encoder in
T5X. On top of the encoded fused text and image tokens,
19404

we use three kinds of predictors to predict different outputs.
For heatmap prediction, the image tokens are reshaped into
a feature map and sent through convolution layers, deconvo-
lution layers, and sigmoid activation, and outputs implausi-
bility and misalignment heatmaps. For score prediction, the
feature map is sent through convolution layers, linear layers,
and sigmoid activation, resulting in scalars as fine-grained
scores.
To predict the keyword misalignment sequence, the orig-
inal prompt used to generate the image is used as text input
to the model. A modified prompt is used as the prediction
target for the T5X decoder. The modified prompt has a spe-
cial suffix (‘ 0’) for each misaligned token, e.g., a yellow 0
cat if the generated image contains a black cat and the word
yellow is misaligned with the image. During evaluation, we
can extract the misaligned keywords using the special suf-
fix.
4.1.2
Model variants
We explore two model variants for the prediction heads of
the heatmaps and scores.
Multi-head
A straightforward way to predict multiple
heatmaps and scores is to use multiple prediction heads,
with one head for each score and heatmap type. This will
require seven prediction heads in total.
Augmented prompt
Another approach is to use a single
head for each prediction type, i.e., three heads in total, for
heatmap, score, and misalignment sequence, respectively.
To inform the model of the fine-grained heatmap or score
type, we augment the prompt with the output type. More
specifically, we prepend a task string (e.g., ‘implausibility
heatmap’) to the prompt for each particular task of one ex-
ample and use the corresponding label as the training tar-
get. During inference, by augmenting the prompt with the
corresponding task string, the single heatmap (score) head
can predict different heatmaps (scores). As we show in the
experiments, this augmented prompt approach can create
task-specific vision feature maps and text encodings, which
performs significantly better in some of the tasks.
4.1.3
Model optimization
We train the model with a pixel-wise mean squared error
(MSE) loss for the heatmap prediction, and MSE loss for
the score prediction. For misalignment sequence predic-
tion, the model is trained with teacher-forcing cross-entropy
loss. The final loss function is the weighted combination of
the heatmap MSE loss, score MSE loss, and the sequence
teacher-forcing cross-entropy loss.
(a) Image
(b) GT
(c) Our model
(d) ResNet-50
Figure 5. Examples of implausibility heatmaps. Prompt: photo
of a slim asian little girl ballerina with long hair wearing white
tights running on a beach from behind nikon D5
(a) Image
(b) GT
(c) Our model
(d) CLIP gradient
Figure 6. Examples of misalignment heatmaps. Prompt: A snake
on a mushroom.
4.2. Experiments
4.2.1
Experimental setup
Our model is trained on the 16K RichHF-18K training sam-
ples, and the hyperparameters were tuned using the model
performance on the 1K RichHF-18K validation set. The
hyperparameters setup can be found in supplementary ma-
terial.

## Evaluation

For score prediction tasks, we re-
port the Pearson linear correlation coefficient (PLCC) and
Spearman rank correlation coefficient (SRCC), which are
typical evaluation metrics for score predictions [28]. For
heatmap prediction tasks, a straightforward way to evaluate
the results would be to borrow standard saliency heatmap
evaluation metrics such as NSS/KLD [5]. However, these
metrics cannot be applied directly in our case as all these
metrics assume the ground truth heatmap is not empty; yet
in our case, empty ground truth is possible (e.g., for arti-
fact/implausibility heatmap, it means the image does not
have any artifact/implausibility). As such, we report MSE
on all samples and on those with empty ground truth, re-
spectively, and report saliency heatmap evaluation metrics
like NSS/KLD/AUC-Judd/SIM/CC [5] for the samples with
non-empty ground truth. For the misaligned keyword se-
quence prediction, we adopt the token-level precision, re-
call, and F1-score.
Specifically, the precision/recall/F1
scores are computed for the misaligned keywords over all
the samples.
Baselines
For comparison, we finetune two ResNet-50
models [18], with multiple fully connected layers and
deconvolution heads to predict the scores and heatmaps,
respectively.
We also use the off-the-shelf PickScore
model [30] to compute the PickScores and calculate the
metrics w.r.t each of our four ground truth scores. We use
the off-the-shelf CLIP model [39] as a baseline to compute
19405

Plausibility
Aesthetics
Text-image Alignment
Overall
PLCC ↑
SRCC ↑
PLCC ↑
SRCC ↑
PLCC ↑
SRCC ↑
PLCC ↑
SRCC ↑
ResNet-50
0.495
0.487
0.370
0.363
0.108
0.119
0.337
0.308
PickScore (off-the-shelf)
0.0098
0.0280
0.131
0.140
0.346
0.340
0.202
0.226
CLIP (off-the-shelf)
−
−
−
−
0.185
0.130
−
−
CLIP (fine-tuned)
0.390
0.378
0.357
0.360
0.398
0.390
0.353
0.352
Our Model (multi-head)
0.666
0.654
0.605
0.591
0.487
0.500
0.582
0.561
Our Model (augmented prompt)
0.693
0.681
0.600
0.589
0.474
0.496
0.580
0.562
Table 1. Score prediction results on the test set.
All data
GT = 0
GT > 0
MSE ↓
MSE ↓
CC ↑
KLD ↓
SIM ↑
NSS ↑
AUC-Judd ↑
ResNet-50
0.00996
0.00093
0.506
1.669
0.338
2.924
0.909
Ours (multi-head)
0.01216
0.00141
0.425
1.971
0.302
2.330
0.877
Ours (augmented prompt)
0.00920
0.00095
0.556
1.652
0.409
3.085
0.913
Table 2.
Implausibility heatmap prediction results on the test set.
GT = 0 refers to empty implausibility heatmap, i.e., no arti-
facts/implausibility (69 out of 995 test samples are empty), for ground truth. GT > 0 refers to heatmaps with artifacts/implausibility,
for ground truth.
(a) Prompt: gamer playing league of
legends at night.
Plausibility score.
GT: 0.333, Our model: 0.410
Overall score.
GT: 0.417, Our model: 0.457
(b) Prompt: An endless wavy ocean
under a colorful night sky artistic
painting pastel.
Plausibility score.
GT: 1.0, Our model: 0.979
Overall score.
GT 1.0, Our model: 0.848
(c) Prompt: Mechanical bee flying in
nature electronics motors wires but-
tons lcd.
Text-image alignment score.
GT: 0.583, Our model: 0.408
Aesthetics score.
GT: 0.75, Our model: 0.722
(d) Prompt: anime fortnite character.
Text-image alignment score.
GT: 1.0, Our model: 0.897
Aesthetics score.
GT: 0.75, Our model: 0.713
Figure 7. Examples of ratings. “GT” is the ground-truth score (average score from three annotators).
(a) Muse [6] before finetuning
(b) Muse [6] after finetuning
(c) LD [41] without guidance
(d) LD [41] after aesthetic guidance
Figure 8. Examples illustrating the impact of RAHF on generative models. (a-b): Muse [6] generated images before and after finetuning
with examples filtered by plausibility scores, prompt: A cat sleeping on the ground using a shoe as a pillow. (c-d): Results without and
with aesthetic score used as Classifier Guidance [2] on Latent Diffusion (LD) [41], prompt: a macro lens closeup of a paperclip.
19406

All data
GT = 0
GT > 0
MSE ↓
MSE ↓
CC ↑
KLD ↓
SIM ↑
NSS ↑
AUC-Judd ↑
CLIP gradient
0.00817
0.00551
0.015
3.844
0.041
0.143
0.643
Our Model (multi-head)
0.00303
0.00015
0.206
2.932
0.093
1.335
0.838
Our Model (augmented prompt)
0.00304
0.00006
0.212
2.933
0.106
1.411
0.841
Table 3. Text misalignment heatmap prediction results on the test set. GT = 0 refers to empty misalignment heatmap, i.e., no misalignment
(144 out of 995 test samples are empty), for ground truth. GT > 0 refers to heatmaps with misalignment, for ground truth.
(a) Prompt: a baseball with the parthenon on its cover, sitting on the pitcher’s mound
(b) Prompt: A photograph of a beautiful, modern house that is located in a quiet neighborhood. The house is made of brick and has a large front porch. It
has a manicured lawn and a large backyard.
Figure 9. Region inpainting with Muse [6] generative model. From left to right, the 4 figures are: original images with artifacts from Muse,
predicted implausibility heatmaps from our model, masks by processing (thresholding, dilating) the heatmaps, and new images from Muse
region inpainting with the mask, respectively.
Precision
Recall
F1 Score
Multi-head
62.9
33.0
43.3
Augmented prompt
61.3
34.1
43.9
Table 4. Text misalignment prediction results on the test set.
Preference
≫
>
≈
<
≪
Percentage
21.5%
30.33%
31.33%
12.67%
4.17%
Table 5. Human Evaluation Results: Finetuned Muse vs origi-
nal Muse model preference: Percentage of examples where fine-
tuned Muse is significantly better (≫), slightly better (>), about
the same (≈), slightly worse (<), significantly worse (≪) than
original Muse. Data was collected from 6 individuals in a ran-
domized survey.
the cosine similarity of the image and text embeddings and
use it to calculate the text-image alignment metric, as the
CLIP cosine similarity is designed to reflect the alignment
between images and prompts. Besides, we also fine-tune a
CLIP model to predict the four types of scores using our
training dataset. For misalignment heatmap prediction, we
use CLIP gradient [45] map as a baseline.
4.2.2
Prediction result on RichHF-18K test set
Quantitative analysis
The experimental results of our
model prediction on the four fine-grained scores, the im-
plausibility heatmap, misalignment heatmap, and misalign-
ment keyword sequence on our RichHF-18K test set are
presented in Tab. 1, Tab. 2, Tab. 3, and Tab. 4 respectively.
In both Tab. 1 and Tab. 3, the two variants of our pro-
posed model both significantly outperform ResNet-50 (or
CLIP for text-image alignment score).
Yet, in Tab. 2,
the multi-head version of our model performs worse than
ResNet-50, but our augmented prompt version outperforms
ResNet-50. The main reason might be that in the multi-
head version, without augmenting the prediction task in the
prompt, the same prompt is used for all the seven prediction
tasks, and hence the feature maps and text tokens will be
the same for all tasks. It might not be easy to find a good
tradeoff among these tasks, and hence the performance of
some tasks such as artifact/implausibility heatmap became
worse. However, after augmenting the prediction task into
a prompt, the feature map and text token can be adapted to
19407

each particular task with better results. Additionally, we
note that misalignment heatmap prediction generally has
worse results than artifact/implausibility heatmap predic-
tion, possibly because misalignment regions are less well-
defined, and the annotations may therefore be noisier.
Qualitative examples
We show some example pre-
dictions from our model for implausibility heatmap
(Fig. 5), where our model identifies the regions with arti-
fact/implausibility, and for misalignment heatmap (Fig. 6),
where our model identifies the objects that don’t correspond
to the prompt. Fig. 7 shows some example images and their
ground-truth and predicted scores. More examples are in
the supplementary material.
5. Learning from rich human feedback
In this section, we investigate whether the predicted rich
human feedback (e.g., scores and heatmaps) can be used to
improve image generation. To ensure that the gains from
our RAHF model generalize across generative model fam-
ilies, we mainly use Muse [6] as our target model to im-
prove, which is based on a masked transformer architecture
and thus different from the Stable Diffusion model variants
in our RichHF-18K dataset.
Finetuning generative models with predicted scores
We first illustrate that finetuning with RAHF scores can im-
prove Muse. First, we generate eight images for each of
the 12,564 prompts (the prompt set is created via PaLM
2 [1, 11] with some seed prompts) using the pre-trained
Muse model.
We predict RAHF scores for each image,
and if the highest score for the images from each prompt
is above a fixed threshold, it will be selected as part of our
finetuning dataset. The Muse model is then finetuned with
this dataset. This approach could be viewed as a simplified
version of Direct Preference Optimization [15].
In Fig. 8 (a)-(b), we show one example of finetun-
ing Muse with our predicted plausibility score (thresh-
old=0.8).
To quantify the gain from Muse finetuning,
we used 100 new prompts to generate images, and asked
6 annotators to perform side-by-side comparisons (for
plausibility) between two images from the original Muse
and the fine-tuned Muse respectively.
The annotators
choose from five possible responses (image A is signifi-
cantly/slightly better than image B, about the same, im-
age B is slightly/significantly better than image A), without
knowledge of which model is used to generate the image
A/B. The results in Tab. 5 demonstrate that the finetuned
Muse with RAHF plausibility scores possesses significantly
fewer artifacts/implausibility than the original Muse.
Moreover, in Fig. 8 (c)-(d), we show an example of
using the RAHF aesthetic score as Classifier Guidance to
the Latent Diffusion model [41], similar to the approach
in Bansal et al. [2], demonstrating that each of the fine-
grained scores can improve different aspects of the gener-
ative model/results.
Region inpainting with predicted heatmaps and scores
We demonstrate that our model’s predicted heatmaps and
scores can be used to perform region inpainting to im-
prove the quality of generated images. For each image, we
first predict implausibility heatmaps, then create a mask by
processing the heatmap (using thresholding and dilating).
Muse inpainting [6] is applied within the masked region to
generate new images that match the text prompt. Multiple
images are generated, and the final image is chosen by the
highest predicted plausibility score by our RAHF.
In Fig. 9, we show several inpainting results with our pre-
dicted implausibility heatmaps and plausibility scores. As
shown, more plausible images with fewer artifacts are gen-
erated after inpainting. Again, this shows that our RAHF
generalizes well to images from a generative model very
different from the ones whose images are used to train
RAHF. More details and examples can be found in the sup-
plementary material.
6. Conclusions and limitations
In this work, we contributed RichHF-18K, the first rich hu-
man feedback dataset for image generation. We designed
and trained a multimodal Transformer to predict the rich
human feedback, and demonstrated some instances to im-
prove image generation with our rich human feedback.
While some of our results are quite exciting and promis-
ing, there are several limitations to our work. First, the
model performance on the misalignment heatmap is worse
than that on the implausibility heatmaps, possibly due to the
noise in the misalignment heatmap. It is somewhat ambigu-
ous how to label some misalignment cases such as absent
objects on the image. Improving the misalignment label
quality is one of the future directions. Second, it would
be helpful to collect more data on generative models be-
yond Pick-a-Pic (Stable Diffusion) and investigate their ef-
fect on the RAHF models.
Moreover, while we present
three promising ways to leverage our model to improve T2I
generation, there is a myriad of other ways to utilize rich
human feedback that can be explored, e.g., how to use the
predicted heatmaps or scores as a reward signal to finetune
generative models with reinforcement learning, and how to
use the predicted heatmaps as a weighting map, or how to
use the predicted misaligned sequences in learning from hu-
man feedback to help improve image generation, etc. We
hope RichHF-18K and our initial models inspire quests to
investigate these research directions in future work.
References
[1] Rohan Anil, Andrew M Dai, Orhan Firat, Melvin John-
son, Dmitry Lepikhin, Alexandre Passos, Siamak Shakeri,
19408

Emanuel Taropa, Paige Bailey, Zhifeng Chen, et al. Palm 2
technical report. arXiv preprint arXiv:2305.10403, 2023. 8
[2] Arpit
Bansal,
Hong-Min
Chu,
Avi
Schwarzschild,
Soumyadip Sengupta,
Micah Goldblum,
Jonas Geip-
ing, and Tom Goldstein. Universal guidance for diffusion
models, 2023. 6, 8
[3] Andrew Brock, Jeff Donahue, and Karen Simonyan. Large
scale gan training for high fidelity natural image synthesis.
arXiv preprint arXiv:1809.11096, 2018. 2
[4] Tim Brooks, Aleksander Holynski, and Alexei A Efros. In-
structpix2pix: Learning to follow image editing instructions.
In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer
Vision and Pattern Recognition, pages 18392–18402, 2023.
1
[5] Zoya Bylinskii, Tilke Judd, Aude Oliva, Antonio Torralba,
and Fr´edo Durand. What do different evaluation metrics tell
us about saliency models?
IEEE Transactions on Pattern
Analysis and Machine Intelligence, 2018. 5
[6] Huiwen Chang, Han Zhang, Jarred Barber, AJ Maschinot,
Jose Lezama, Lu Jiang, Ming-Hsuan Yang, Kevin Mur-
phy, William T Freeman, Michael Rubinstein, et al. Muse:
Text-to-image generation via masked generative transform-
ers. arXiv preprint arXiv:2301.00704, 2023. 2, 6, 7, 8
[7] Xi Chen, Xiao Wang, Soravit Changpinyo, AJ Piergiovanni,
Piotr Padlewski, Daniel Salz, Sebastian Goodman, Adam
Grycner, Basil Mustafa, Lucas Beyer, Alexander Kolesnikov,
Joan Puigcerver, Nan Ding, Keran Rong, Hassan Akbari,
Gaurav Mishra, Linting Xue, Ashish Thapliyal, James Brad-
bury, Weicheng Kuo, Mojtaba Seyedhosseini, Chao Jia,
Burcu Karagol Ayan, Carlos Riquelme, Andreas Steiner,
Anelia Angelova, Xiaohua Zhai, Neil Houlsby, and Radu
Soricut. Pali: A jointly-scaled multilingual language-image
model, 2022. 3, 4
[8] Jaemin Cho, Yushi Hu, Roopal Garg, Peter Anderson, Ran-
jay Krishna, Jason Baldridge, Mohit Bansal, Jordi Pont-
Tuset, and Su Wang. Davidsonian Scene Graph: Improv-
ing Reliability in Fine-Grained Evaluation for Text-to-Image
Generation. In arXiv:2310.18235, 2023. 2
[9] Jaemin Cho, Abhay Zala, and Mohit Bansal.
Visual pro-
gramming for text-to-image generation and evaluation. In
NeurIPS, 2023. 2
[10] Jaemin Cho, Abhay Zala, and Mohit Bansal.
Visual pro-
gramming for text-to-image generation and evaluation. In
NeurIPS, 2023. 2
[11] Aakanksha Chowdhery, Sharan Narang, Jacob Devlin,
Maarten Bosma, Gaurav Mishra, Adam Roberts, Paul
Barham, Hyung Won Chung, Charles Sutton, Sebastian
Gehrmann, et al.
Palm: Scaling language modeling with
pathways. arXiv preprint arXiv:2204.02311, 2022. 8
[12] Florinel-Alin Croitoru, Vlad Hondru, Radu Tudor Ionescu,
and Mubarak Shah. Diffusion models in vision: A survey.
IEEE Transactions on Pattern Analysis and Machine Intelli-
gence, 2023. 1
[13] Prafulla Dhariwal and Alexander Nichol. Diffusion models
beat gans on image synthesis. Advances in neural informa-
tion processing systems, 34:8780–8794, 2021. 2
[14] Alexey Dosovitskiy, Lucas Beyer, Alexander Kolesnikov,
Dirk Weissenborn, Xiaohua Zhai, Thomas Unterthiner,
Mostafa Dehghani, Matthias Minderer, Georg Heigold, Syl-
vain Gelly, et al. An image is worth 16x16 words: Trans-
formers for image recognition at scale.
arXiv preprint
arXiv:2010.11929, 2020. 4
[15] Ying
Fan,
Olivia
Watkins,
Yuqing
Du,
Hao
Liu,
Moonkyung Ryu, Craig Boutilier, Pieter Abbeel, Moham-
mad Ghavamzadeh, Kangwook Lee, and Kimin Lee. Dpok:
Reinforcement learning for fine-tuning text-to-image diffu-
sion models. In Advances in Neural Information Processing
Systems, 2023. 8
[16] Ian Goodfellow, Jean Pouget-Abadie, Mehdi Mirza, Bing
Xu, David Warde-Farley, Sherjil Ozair, Aaron Courville, and
Yoshua Bengio. Generative adversarial nets. Advances in
neural information processing systems, 27, 2014. 2
[17] Jiatao Gu, Shuangfei Zhai, Yizhe Zhang, Josh Susskind, and
Navdeep Jaitly. Matryoshka diffusion models, 2023. 1
[18] Kaiming He, Xiangyu Zhang, Shaoqing Ren, and Jian Sun.
Deep residual learning for image recognition. In Proceed-
ings of the IEEE conference on computer vision and pattern
recognition, pages 770–778, 2016. 5
[19] Jack Hessel, Ari Holtzman, Maxwell Forbes, Ronan Le Bras,
and Yejin Choi. Clipscore: A reference-free evaluation met-
ric for image captioning. In EMNLP, 2022. 2
[20] Martin Heusel, Hubert Ramsauer, Thomas Unterthiner,
Bernhard Nessler, and Sepp Hochreiter. Gans trained by a
two time-scale update rule converge to a local nash equilib-
rium. Advances in neural information processing systems,
30, 2017. 1
[21] Irina Higgins, Loic Matthey, Arka Pal, Christopher Burgess,
Xavier Glorot, Matthew Botvinick, Shakir Mohamed, and
Alexander Lerchner. beta-vae: Learning basic visual con-
cepts with a constrained variational framework. In Interna-
tional conference on learning representations, 2016. 2
[22] Jonathan Ho, Ajay Jain, and Pieter Abbeel. Denoising dif-
fusion probabilistic models. Advances in neural information
processing systems, 33:6840–6851, 2020. 2
[23] Jonathan Ho, William Chan, Chitwan Saharia, Jay Whang,
Ruiqi Gao, Alexey Gritsenko, Diederik P Kingma, Ben
Poole, Mohammad Norouzi, David J Fleet, et al. Imagen
video: High definition video generation with diffusion mod-
els. arXiv preprint arXiv:2210.02303, 2022. 1
[24] Yushi Hu, Benlin Liu, Jungo Kasai, Yizhong Wang, Mari Os-
tendorf, Ranjay Krishna, and Noah A. Smith. Tifa: Accurate
and interpretable text-to-image faithfulness evaluation with
question answering. In ICCV, 2023. 2
[25] Kaiyi Huang, Kaiyue Sun, Enze Xie, Zhenguo Li, and Xi-
hui Liu. T2i-compbench: A comprehensive benchmark for
open-world compositional text-to-image generation. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2307.06350, 2023. 2
[26] Tero Karras, Samuli Laine, and Timo Aila. A style-based
generator architecture for generative adversarial networks.
In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF conference on computer vi-
sion and pattern recognition, pages 4401–4410, 2019. 2
[27] Bahjat Kawar, Shiran Zada, Oran Lang, Omer Tov, Huiwen
Chang, Tali Dekel, Inbar Mosseri, and Michal Irani. Imagic:
Text-based real image editing with diffusion models.
In
CVPR, 2023. 1
19409

[28] Junjie Ke, Qifei Wang, Yilin Wang, Peyman Milanfar, and
Feng Yang. Musiq: Multi-scale image quality transformer.
In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF International Conference
on Computer Vision, 2021. 5
[29] Diederik P Kingma and Max Welling. Auto-encoding varia-
tional bayes. arXiv preprint arXiv:1312.6114, 2013. 2
[30] Yuval Kirstain, Adam Polyak, Uriel Singer, Shahbuland Ma-
tiana, Joe Penna, and Omer Levy.
Pick-a-pic: An open
dataset of user preferences for text-to-image generation.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2305.01569, 2023. 1, 2, 5
[31] Tony Lee, Michihiro Yasunaga, Chenlin Meng, Yifan Mai,
Joon Sung Park, Agrim Gupta, Yunzhi Zhang, Deepak
Narayanan, Hannah Benita Teufel, Marco Bellagente, Min-
guk Kang, Taesung Park, Jure Leskovec, Jun-Yan Zhu, Li
Fei-Fei, Jiajun Wu, Stefano Ermon, and Percy Liang. Holis-
tic evaluation of text-to-image models. In Neural Informa-
tion Processing Systems Datasets and Benchmarks Track,
2023. 2
[32] Bowen Li, Xiaojuan Qi, Thomas Lukasiewicz, and Philip
Torr.
Controllable text-to-image generation.
Advances in
Neural Information Processing Systems, 32, 2019. 2
[33] Gang Li and Yang Li. Spotlight: Mobile ui understanding
using vision-language models with a focus. In International
Conference on Learning Representations, 2023. 4
[34] Junnan Li, Dongxu Li, Caiming Xiong, and Steven Hoi.
Blip: Bootstrapping language-image pre-training for uni-
fied vision-language understanding and generation. In In-
ternational Conference on Machine Learning, pages 12888–
12900. PMLR, 2022. 2
[35] Haomiao Ni, Changhao Shi, Kai Li, Sharon X. Huang, and
Martin Renqiang Min. Conditional image-to-video gener-
ation with latent flow diffusion models. In Proceedings of
the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern
Recognition (CVPR), pages 18444–18455, 2023. 1
[36] Alex Nichol, Prafulla Dhariwal, Aditya Ramesh, Pranav
Shyam, Pamela Mishkin, Bob McGrew, Ilya Sutskever, and
Mark Chen. Glide: Towards photorealistic image generation
and editing with text-guided diffusion models. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2112.10741, 2021. 2
[37] Mayu Otani, Riku Togashi, Yu Sawai, Ryosuke Ishigami,
Yuta Nakashima, Esa Rahtu, Janne Heikkil¨a, and Shin’ichi
Satoh.
Toward verifiable and reproducible human evalu-
ation for text-to-image generation.
In Proceedings of the
IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern
Recognition, pages 14277–14286, 2023. 2
[38] Tingting Qiao, Jing Zhang, Duanqing Xu, and Dacheng Tao.
Mirrorgan: Learning text-to-image generation by redescrip-
tion. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Com-
puter Vision and Pattern Recognition, pages 1505–1514,
2019. 2
[39] Alec Radford, Jong Wook Kim, Chris Hallacy, Aditya
Ramesh, Gabriel Goh, Sandhini Agarwal, Girish Sastry,
Amanda Askell, Pamela Mishkin, Jack Clark, et al. Learning
transferable visual models from natural language supervi-
sion. In International conference on machine learning, pages
8748–8763. PMLR, 2021. 2, 5
[40] Adam Roberts, Hyung Won Chung, Anselm Levskaya,
Gaurav Mishra, James Bradbury, Daniel Andor, Sharan
Narang, Brian Lester, Colin Gaffney, Afroz Mohiuddin,
Curtis Hawthorne, Aitor Lewkowycz, Alex Salcianu, Marc
van Zee, Jacob Austin, Sebastian Goodman, Livio Bal-
dini Soares, Haitang Hu, Sasha Tsvyashchenko, Aakanksha
Chowdhery, Jasmijn Bastings, Jannis Bulian, Xavier Garcia,
Jianmo Ni, Andrew Chen, Kathleen Kenealy, Jonathan H.
Clark, Stephan Lee, Dan Garrette, James Lee-Thorp, Colin
Raffel, Noam Shazeer, Marvin Ritter, Maarten Bosma,
Alexandre Passos, Jeremy Maitin-Shepard, Noah Fiedel,
Mark Omernick, Brennan Saeta, Ryan Sepassi, Alexander
Spiridonov, Joshua Newlan, and Andrea Gesmundo. Scaling
up models and data with t5x and seqio. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2203.17189, 2022. 4
[41] Robin Rombach, Andreas Blattmann, Dominik Lorenz,
Patrick Esser, and Bj¨orn Ommer.
High-resolution image
synthesis with latent diffusion models.
In Proceedings of
the IEEE/CVF conference on computer vision and pattern
recognition, pages 10684–10695, 2022. 1, 2, 6, 8
[42] Chitwan Saharia, William Chan, Saurabh Saxena, Lala
Li, Jay Whang, Emily L Denton, Kamyar Ghasemipour,
Raphael Gontijo Lopes, Burcu Karagol Ayan, Tim Salimans,
et al. Photorealistic text-to-image diffusion models with deep
language understanding.
Advances in Neural Information
Processing Systems, 35:36479–36494, 2022. 1
[43] Tim Salimans, Ian Goodfellow, Wojciech Zaremba, Vicki
Cheung, Alec Radford, and Xi Chen. Improved techniques
for training gans. Advances in neural information processing
systems, 29, 2016. 1
[44] Shelly Sheynin, Adam Polyak, Uriel Singer, Yuval Kirstain,
Amit Zohar, Oron Ashual, Devi Parikh, and Yaniv Taigman.
Emu edit: Precise image editing via recognition and genera-
tion tasks, 2023. 1
[45] Karen Simonyan, Andrea Vedaldi, and Andrew Zisserman.
Deep inside convolutional networks: Visualising image clas-
sification models and saliency maps. In 2nd International
Conference on Learning Representations, ICLR 2014, Banff,
AB, Canada, April 14-16, 2014, Workshop Track Proceed-
ings, 2014. 7
[46] Jascha Sohl-Dickstein, Eric Weiss, Niru Maheswaranathan,
and Surya Ganguli.
Deep unsupervised learning using
nonequilibrium thermodynamics.
In International confer-
ence on machine learning, pages 2256–2265. PMLR, 2015.
2
[47] Ming Tao, Hao Tang, Fei Wu, Xiao-Yuan Jing, Bing-Kun
Bao, and Changsheng Xu.
Df-gan: A simple and effec-
tive baseline for text-to-image synthesis. In Proceedings of
the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern
Recognition, pages 16515–16525, 2022. 2
[48] Aaron Van Den Oord, Oriol Vinyals, et al. Neural discrete
representation learning. Advances in neural information pro-
cessing systems, 30, 2017. 2
[49] Ashish Vaswani, Noam Shazeer, Niki Parmar, Jakob Uszko-
reit, Llion Jones, Aidan N Gomez, Łukasz Kaiser, and Illia
Polosukhin. Attention is all you need. Advances in neural
information processing systems, 30, 2017. 4
[50] S. Wang, C. Saharia, C. Montgomery, J. Pont-Tuset, S. Noy,
S. Pellegrini, Y. Onoe, S. Laszlo, D. J. Fleet, R. Soricut, J.
19410

Baldridge, M. Norouzi, P. Anderson, and W. Chan. Imagen
editor and editbench: Advancing and evaluating text-guided
image inpainting. In CVPR, 2023. 1
[51] Xiaoshi Wu, Yiming Hao, Keqiang Sun, Yixiong Chen, Feng
Zhu, Rui Zhao, and Hongsheng Li. Human preference score
v2: A solid benchmark for evaluating human preferences of
text-to-image synthesis. arXiv preprint arXiv:2306.09341,
2023. 2
[52] Xiaoshi Wu, Keqiang Sun, Feng Zhu, Rui Zhao, and Hong-
sheng Li.
Human preference score: Better aligning text-
to-image models with human preference.
In Proceedings
of the IEEE/CVF International Conference on Computer Vi-
sion, pages 2096–2105, 2023. 1, 2
[53] Zhen Xing, Qijun Feng, Haoran Chen, Qi Dai, Han Hu, Hang
Xu, Zuxuan Wu, and Yu-Gang Jiang. A survey on video
diffusion models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2310.10647, 2023. 1
[54] Jiazheng Xu, Xiao Liu, Yuchen Wu, Yuxuan Tong, Qinkai
Li, Ming Ding, Jie Tang, and Yuxiao Dong.
Imagere-
ward: Learning and evaluating human preferences for text-
to-image generation. In Neural Information Processing Sys-
tems, 2023. 1, 2
[55] Tao Xu, Pengchuan Zhang, Qiuyuan Huang, Han Zhang,
Zhe Gan, Xiaolei Huang, and Xiaodong He. Attngan: Fine-
grained text to image generation with attentional generative
adversarial networks. In Proceedings of the IEEE conference
on computer vision and pattern recognition, pages 1316–
1324, 2018. 2
[56] Ling Yang, Zhilong Zhang, Yang Song, Shenda Hong, Run-
sheng Xu, Yue Zhao, Wentao Zhang, Bin Cui, and Ming-
Hsuan Yang. Diffusion models: A comprehensive survey of
methods and applications. ACM Computing Surveys, 2022.
1
[57] Michal Yarom, Yonatan Bitton, Soravit Changpinyo, Roee
Aharoni, Jonathan Herzig, Oran Lang, Eran Ofek, and Idan
Szpektor. What you see is what you read? improving text-
image alignment evaluation, 2023. 2
[58] Jiahui Yu, Yuanzhong Xu, Jing Yu Koh, Thang Luong, Gun-
jan Baid, Zirui Wang, Vijay Vasudevan, Alexander Ku, Yin-
fei Yang, Burcu Karagol Ayan, et al.
Scaling autoregres-
sive models for content-rich text-to-image generation. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2206.10789, 2(3):5, 2022. 1
[59] Chenshuang Zhang, Chaoning Zhang, Mengchun Zhang,
and In So Kweon. Text-to-image diffusion model in gener-
ative ai: A survey. arXiv preprint arXiv:2303.07909, 2023.
1
[60] Han Zhang, Tao Xu, Hongsheng Li, Shaoting Zhang, Xiao-
gang Wang, Xiaolei Huang, and Dimitris N Metaxas. Stack-
gan: Text to photo-realistic image synthesis with stacked
generative adversarial networks. In Proceedings of the IEEE
international conference on computer vision, pages 5907–
5915, 2017. 2
[61] Lingzhi Zhang, Zhengjie Xu, Connelly Barnes, Yuqian
Zhou, Qing Liu, He Zhang, Sohrab Amirghodsi, Zhe Lin, Eli
Shechtman, and Jianbo Shi. Perceptual artifacts localization
for image synthesis tasks. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF
International Conference on Computer Vision, pages 7579–
7590, 2023. 3
[62] Minfeng Zhu, Pingbo Pan, Wei Chen, and Yi Yang. Dm-gan:
Dynamic memory generative adversarial networks for text-
to-image synthesis. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF con-
ference on computer vision and pattern recognition, pages
5802–5810, 2019. 2
19411
